One Big Deck
Preliminary Draft
This is a variant of the game to be used when all the cards are owned by the
same person. It's specifically designed for the One With Everything factory set,
which has one of every Plot and Group card, plus three of each Illuminati, and
some blanks. But these rules will work with any big stack of INWO cards. (See
this list of sample decks for examples.)

Start by removing any blank cards from the deck, and dividing the cards into one
stack of Plots and one stack of Groups.
Deal a starting hand of 3 Plots and 10 Groups to each player, face down. Players
may look at their cards, but cannot play any of them until the game actually
begins.
Each player may go through the Plots deck and choose one Illuminati card for
himself. Pick one that goes well with the Groups and Plots you were dealt.
Shuffle the cards after the last player has chosen.
Each player puts his chosen Illuminati card on the table, all at once. It can
happen that more than one players have the same type of Illuminati ... which
means they represent different factions of the same conspiracy. See p. 13 of the
INWO rulebook.
Each player chooses one Group card from his hand, as the first puppet of his
Illuminati. All players show their choices at the same time. Any puppets which
are chosen by more than one player go back into the owners' hands, and they must
make alternate choices. This continues until there are no duplicate puppets.
Deal the top four Groups from the deck into the middle of the table, to start
the ''uncontrolled'' area -- see below.
Each player rolls two dice. The one with the highest roll goes first. At the
beginning of the game, you may not attack a player who has not yet had their
first turn! You may not use Plot cards or special abilities on them, either.
Once the game starts, use the regular turn sequence. Draw Plots and Groups
normally, as per the regular INWO rules -- but everyone draws from the same
deck. When any card refers to an individual player's Groups or Plots deck, just
read that as meaning ''the'' Groups or Plots deck.

Thus, a card that normally lets you look at the top card of your own deck now
has the same effect as a card that lets you look at the top of a rival's deck.
There's just one deck.
Note that cards which allow you to look through the whole deck are now very
powerful ... of course, in 30 seconds, you may not find the card that you want!
When someone uses such a power, be very strict about the time limit!

A player who returns a card to the deck may still put it on the top, the bottom,
or in the middle. But, of course, there's no guarantee that he will be the one
to draw it again!

The Uncontrolled Area
When any player tries to control a card from his hand and fails, that card goes
into the uncontrolled, or neutral, area. (Exception: The special power of the
Adepts of Hermes means they keep a group even if they fail their attempt to
control it.) And if a player drops out or is destroyed, the groups in his hand
go into the neutral area.

Any player may try to take over or to destroy a card from the uncontrolled area,
and anyone else may aid or oppose those attacks, following the normal rules for
attacking and for interfering with other players' attacks. However, you may not
make an automatic takeover from the uncontrolled area.

Variations
Players may trade cards among themselves after the initial deal, before the game
starts. This may result in some hands being slightly larger than others. So it
goes.

Abuses
You could stack the deck in this game, abusively or otherwise. For instance, you
could put in nothing but Weird groups. But that would probably be a bad idea,
because then either there would be very few groups, or there would be lots of
duplicates for each Group card, and either way people will fight over the
groups.

A subtler way to stack the deck would be to include only those Plots that are
good for certain Illuminati. This is evil; don't do it. Or, if you do, don't
play for money. Or, if you do, give some to charity.

Cards Referring To Duplicates
The One With Everything set contains only one of each Group and Plot card.
Therefore, a few cards are completely worthless if you play a one-deck game with
a single One With Everything set. Any player who draws one of these cards may
show it, discard it immediately, and draw a new one. These cards include Media
Blitz, Counter-Revolution, Payoff, Purge, Faction Fight, Clone, Impostor,
Forgery, and any other card which is good only with duplicate Group or Plot
cards. Of course, in a one-deck game that does contain duplicates, these cards
are no longer worthless ... leave them in!

Cards Powered By Deck Discards
Some Plots or Groups require you to ''spend'' undrawn cards from your Plot or
Group deck. In a one-deck game, spending undrawn cards is not a penalty!
Therefore, remove the Voodoo Economics and March On Washington cards from the
game. (Or treat them as duplicates of Hoax, with the Hoax modification below ...
because it's so much fun when a Hoax comes out.)

Change the cost for 18½ Minute Gap and Hoax to ''discard 3 Plots from your
hand'', in addition to the Action token cost listed on the cards. (If this is
too much trouble, remove these cards).

Some cards also give you the option of discarding undrawn cards. That option is
not available in a one-deck game. These cards include The Big Sellout, Secrets
Man Was Not Meant to Know, Air Magic, and
Fnord!.