Political Infighting
by Steve Brinich


Theme
This is a back-to-basics representation of the familiar political players,
hot-potato issues, and influence peddlers on the American political scene.

Card Selection Notes
The Groups are selected to fit the theme. A cross-section of power levels,
attributes, and alignments is provided insofar as it is consistent with this
objective (e.g. the theme precludes Magic, Secret, and SubGenius groups).

Resources are avoided partly for simplicity, and partly because the one that
most obviously fits the theme (the Clipper Chip) seems likely to damage game
balance.

Plots are selected to include the alignment-based +10s, Power-boosts, and
Paralyzes, plus a cross-section of other useful Plots. After rethinking the
issue a bit in view of the objectives of the contest (create a manageable One
Big Deck for ensnaring, er, attracting new players), I've eliminated
Assassinations and Disasters (redefining the CIA and Red Cross special abilities
accordingly).

Illuminati
Adepts of Hermes: This deck has no Resources or Magic Groups. Don't play Hermes
unless you are an expert player up against a newbie.

Bavarian Illuminati: This deck includes plenty of heavy hitters (15 Groups with
printed Power 5 or better). OTOH, you'll have to fight for them (especially the
ones that count double for somebody else), and many of them are Straight or
Government (Discordia is immune, the Religious Reich can break your Privilege)..

Bermuda Triangle: This deck includes a good mix of alignments (the rarest,
Fanatic, appears 6 times).

Church Of The SubGenius: This deck includes no SubGenius Groups. However, the
SubGenius ability to accumulate Slack (Illuminati actions) and count up to three
Slack as Groups should still make them competitive. Praise Bob!

Discordian Society: This deck includes 7 Weird groups -- 2 of them count double
for you as is, and the Swingers count double if you get two other Liberal
groups. You are immune to most (but not all) of the powerful Groups in this
deck. If the high-power Weird Groups don't come out, you'll need the right Plots
(Frankenfood, Jake Day, The Weird Turn Pro) or The Gay Activists (there are many
powerful Straight groups in this deck -- but The Gay Activists will be targeted
about as intensely as the I.R.S. or Nuclear Power Companies).

Gnomes of Zurich: This deck includes 8 Corporate groups (6 of them count double
for you) and 4 Banks (3 of them count double for you). OTOH, some of these
Groups are particularly vulnerable to the Antinuclear Activists, BATF, CFL-AIO,
EPA, Lawyers, and Underground Newspapers.

The Network: This deck includes 7 Computer groups (4 of them count double for
you). Drawing two Plot cards per turn is especially useful in a One Big Deck
game. OTOH, you're likely to be in trouble if somebody else gets Japan or the
Phone Phreaks before you do.

Servants of Cthulhu: This deck includes a wide range of Groups with bonuses to
destroy (none of them are universal bonueses to destroy, but if you get a few of
them you should be always be able to find some applicable target). The
Underground Newspapers give extra Plot draws for a wide range of victims.

Shangri-La: This deck includes 8 Peaceful Groups with 24 total Power.
Shangri-La's special goal is reduced to 20 Peaceful Power in play, which will
probably require hanging on until most of the Groups deck is played, drawing the
right Plots (Frankenfood, Nobel Peace Prize, or Kinder and Gentler), or getting
The Gay Activists (*keeping* them, even with your defensive bonus, is another
matter). Alternatively, you can simply turtle, take your groups where you can
get them, and go for a regular victory.

Society of Assassins: The Assassins are the other odd man out -- this deck
includes no Secret groups, and few Fanatic groups (half of which already have
Global Power).

UFOs: This deck doesn't use Goal cards. If some substitute is used for the UFO
special ability (e.g. the UFOs secretly select another Illuminati goal, as in
Classic Illuminati), they should be competitive (under SubGenius rules, they
would presumably get one Illuminati action if they took an automatic takeover or
two Illuminati actions if they passed up the ATO).

The Deck (140 cards)
The cards in the deck are listed below. Listings with an asterisk have
modifications listed under "Card Notes".

Groups (70)
Al Gore
AMA
Antinuclear Activists
Antiwar Activists
BATF
Big Media
Bill Clinton
Black Activists
California
Canada
CFL-AIO
China
CIA*
Congressional Wives
Conspiracy Theorists
Dan Quayle
Democrats
Dittoheads
EFF
EPA
FBI
Federal Reserve
Feminists
Fnord Motor Company
Gay Activists
Girlie Magazines
The Green Party
Gun Lobby
Hackers
Hawaii
Hillary Clinton
Hollywood*
Intellectuals
IRS*
Japan
Lawyers
Libertarians
Liquor Companies
Local Police Departments
The Mafia
Moral Minority
Multinational Oil Companies
NATO
New York
Newt Gingrich
Nuclear Power Companies
Pentagon
Phone Company
Phone Phreaks
Red Cross*
Religious Reich
Republicans
Russia
Saddam Hussein
Savings And Loans
Science Alarmists
Secular Humanists
Shock Jocks
Silicon Valley
Supreme Court
Swingers
Teddy Kennedy
Texas
Tobacco Companies
Triliberal Commission
TV Preachers
Underground Newspapers
United Nations
Vatican City
Wall Street
Resources (0)
Plots (70)
Agent In Place
Albino Alligators
Are We Having Fun Yet?
Assertiveness Training
Backlash
Benefit Concert
The Big Score
Bimbo At Eleven
Bribery*
Cat Juggling
Censorship
Chain Letter
Charismatic Leader
Citizenship Award
Commitment
Contract On America
Crackdown on Crime
Death To All Fanatics
Deep Agent
Emergency Powers
Every Year Is Worse
Fnord!*
Frankenfood
Fundie Money
Good Polls
Grassroots Support
Hat Trick
Hoax*
Interference
Jake Day
Jihad
Just Say No
Ketchup Is A Vegetable
Kinder And Gentler
Let's Get Organized
Let's Get REALLY Organized
Liberal Agenda
March On Washington*
Martial Law
Martyrs
Metric System
Mob Influence
Monopoly
Murphy's Law*
Nationalization
New Blood
Nobel Peace Prize
Power Corrupts
Privatization
Privileged Attack
Read My Lips
Reorganization
Savings & Loan Scam
School Prayer
The Second Bullet
Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know*
Self-Esteem
Slush Fund
Stealing The Plans
Stock Split
Straighten Up
Supreme Court Nomination
Swiss Bank Account
Terrorist Nuke
Vile Secretions
Waiting Period
The Weird Turn Pro
Whispering Campaign
Whistle Blowers
You Are What You Eat
Card Notes -- Groups
CIA: When the CIA attempts to destroy a Personality, instead of "...may choose
to make it an Assassination", they "...may choose to make it a privileged
attack."

Hollywood: Change text to "The Power of Hollywood (both regular and Global) is
increased by 1 for each Personality in your Power Structure."

IRS: Change the text to "At the beginning of your turn, you may 'tax' any one
rival for a randomly selected Plot card from his hand. This is *not* an action
for the IRS."

Red Cross: Replace the first sentence with "The Red Cross gives all Places in
your Power Structure +3 against any Attack to Destroy."

CARD NOTES -- PLOTS
Bribery: Change the cost to "To use this card, you must spend *all* action
tokens on your Illuminati (minimum of 1) *or* discard three other Plot cards
from your hand."

Fnord: Change the cost to "To use this card, you must spend an Illuminati action
or discard three other Plot cards from your hand."

Hoax: Change the cost to "Use of this card requires action(s) by group(s) with a
total power of at least 6. You must also discard two other Plot cards from your
hand."

March On Washington: Change the cost to "However, you must discard two other
Plot cards from your hand."

Murphy's Law: Change the cost to "To use this card, you must spend *all* action
tokens on your Illuminati (minimum of 1) *or* discard three other Plot cards
from your hand."

Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know: Change the cost to "To use this card, you
must spend *all* action tokens on your Illuminati (minimum of 1) *or* discard
three other Plot cards from your hand."

Deck Variations
If Assassins cards are not available: Add SMOF and Tabloids* to make up for the
disproportionate loss of Weird groups (Shock Jocks and Swingers), and add a set
of Alignment-based Reloads to replace the lost Paralyzes and other Assassins
plots.

*The extra bonus for SMOF to control certain named groups not found in this deck
and special ability of the Tabloids will be irrelevant -- just ignore
them.