DotW Runner-Up: A Chaotic Ad Campaign

Glen Barnett

Theme: Madison Avenue slurps Media groups while New York or the Clone Arrangers
grab Violent or Criminal groups. Power changing cards and a few other tricks
bring you toward both the Gnomes's Special Goal and Hail Eris.
Building the Deck:

When starting out, I suggest three basic stages to deck-building. Even when you
have all the cards and know what they do, this isn't a bad way to work.
Goals, or How am I going to win?:

    Wall St counts for Gnomes Special Goal and for Corporate Masters.
    Privatization will make a high power group count as well.
    Cable TV will count if you have a Personality (Hillary Clinton).
    Gnomes' goal is a good choice - it's easier to use a goal on an Illuminati.
    WITCH counts for Hail Eris.
    The Weird Turn Pro will make a low power Weird group count.
    There are several Power to 6 cards that will make groups count for Hail Eris
or the Corporate goals. 

Getting there, or What takes what:

    Madison Avenue will take Cable TV and Junk Mail at better than a 10, and
will take TV Preachers with a little help.
    A Privatized New York will take ICS and Junk Mail at 10 or better, and also
has a 9 to take Hawaii and will take the SCLA with a little help. 

Shticks, or What does what:

    Mob Influence is for Junk Mail or the SCLA
    Weird Turn Pro is for SCLA or Science Fiction Fans
    Privatization is for New York or Clone Arrangers
    Hawaii should probably hang off your most powerful Corporate group.
    Midas Mill is for New York. If you don't get New York, ditch or trade the
Midas Mill.
    Upheaval is only to be used if you manage to race ahead in groups, and could
be followed up with a Solidarity. Take care using both.
    Chicken In Every Pot should be held back for when you need it; you may be
able to use it in the endgame to advantage.
    Read My Lips and Talisman of Ahrimanes are to protect your personality. 

So here's the deck -
Illuminati

    Gnomes of Zurich 

Group Cards

    Cable TV
    Clone Arrangers
    Hawaii
    Hillary Clinton
    Int'l Cocaine Smugglers
    Junk Mail
    Madison Avenue
    New York
    Rosicrucians
    Science Fiction Fans
    Semiconscious Lib.
    T.V. Preachers
    W.I.T.C.H.
    Wall Street
    Midas Mill 

Plot Cards

    Agent in Place
    Albino Alligators
    Are We Having Fun Yet?
    Atomic Monster
    The Auditor From Hell
    Crop Circles
    Currency Speculation
    Grassroots Support
    Harmonica Virgins
    Just Say No
    Miracle Diet Plan
    Mob Influence
    Poison
    Privatization
    Pulitzer Prize
    Read My Lips
    Secrets Man Was Not...
    Self-Esteem
    Stealing the Plans
    Terrorist Nuke
    Talisman of Ahrimanes
    Upheaval!
    Voodoo Economics
    The Weird Turn Pro
    Goal: Hail Eris
    NWO: Chicken in Every Pot
    NWO: Don't Forget to Smash the State
    NWO: Solidarity
    NWO: World Hunger 

Beginning

Madison Avenue. If it bounces, take the Rosicrucians instead - you can use them
to draw a Crop Circles, which you can then use next turn to make sure you get
Madison Avenue - you need to get it before your rival does.
Early Game

You mainly want to concentrate on getting down a few Media groups. If you get
lucky and get a little way ahead, consider going looking for Upheaval.
Solidarity can be a funny follow-up. A lot of your plots are powered by Media
groups, so having a few down will help. If you can, get Clone Arrangers down.
Midgame

You should look to have New York or Clone Arrangers down by now. If both come
out in rivals structures, you should try to make a deal with the owner of one to
take the other in return for immunity from your agent, plus some other
consideration (you have some nice plots, for example, and lots of groups with
global power). Start taking groups with them also. Get Secrets into your hand if
it isn't already. Note that at various stages, some of your NWOs can hurt you -
don't play them unless they hurt your rivals even more. Keep Hillary back - at
least until you have some protection.
Endgame

By now you should have Privatized New York (or the Clone Arrangers) and could
have the Midas Mill attached. Hawaii should be their puppet. You should start
looking for any remaining power changers you can use, and your goal if you don't
have it yet. Make groups count double, and declare victory. The token removing
ability of Miracle Diet Plan could be handy here - and if you have the Clone
Arrangers, you can get a very powerful action as well.
Substitute cards

You may want to ignore Upheaval and take another disaster (Hurricane, for
example). You could play this deck as a UFO's deck by adding in the Corporate
Masters - but then you'll need to choose which goal to win with. You could also
go with the Adepts, add in the Templars and the Hammer of Thor, and work toward
one or the other of the goal cards.
Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: November 17, 1997

Last modified: November 17, 1997
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
