INWO Deck: Abduction Moon Party
Premise: The Moonbase says that if it "is destroyed, all Personalities there are
killed." No caveat about not counting as destroyed, and the rules say that, yes,
"killed" is just a permanent form of "destroyed." Therefore, linking a slew of
Personalities to a Moonbase, and then destroying the 'base, should be a viable
method of quickly reaching a "destroy X groups" goal.

The Deck
Illuminati
The UFO's

Groups

    Moonbase x 2
    George Bush
    Ollie North
    Ross Perot
    Dan Quayle
    Ronald Reagan
    Margaret Thatcher
    Fidel Castro
    Hillary Clinton
    Princess Di
    Al Gore
    Gordo Remora 

Resources

    Crystal Skull 

Plots

    (Goal) Let Them Eat Cake! x 2
    (Goal) Power to the People x 2
    (NWO) Solidarity
    Servants of Cthulhu
    18 1/2 Minute Gap
    Benefit Concert
    Bodyguard x 2
    Combined Disasters
    Earthquake x 2
    Good Polls
    Hoax
    Imposter
    Let's Get REALLY Organized
    Meteor Strike x 4
    Power Grab x 2
    Rewriting History
    Savings & Loan Scam
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Seize the Time
    Slush Fund
    Sniper
    Unmasked 

Strategy
While this would be a natural Cthulhu deck, I've chosen UFOs for a few reasons.
Since - ideally - you only need to destroy the Moonbase to reach your goal,
Cthulhu's special ability isn't terribly useful; the UFOs' extra token, however,
is *always* nice. Additionally, when Cthulhu starts playing many Personalities,
the strategy tends to be, well, transparent. Since there are appropriate Goal
cards for the UFOs to use (and Unmasking as Cthulhu offers another pseudo-Goal
card opportunity) and since you don't want to Assassinate your Personalities
(you will, in fact, be *protecting* them, as best you can, anyway), your Power
Structure will be simultaneously puzzling and unthreatening. Finally, I like the
UFOs thematically - the Secret Masters recruit powerful individuals, promise
them the world, whisk a select few to their secret base on the Moon . . . and
then ice them.

Play
Lead with either Perot or Gore (primarily for their control arrows), but be
aware of Ross's alignment-changing ability. Play defensively; don't make enemies
- Personalities are too vulnerable. Power Grab when you can, and don't hesitate
to use an Illuminati action to move a group to a more defensible position. By
the time you have 7-8 Personalities out, you *should* be holding 1) a Goal card,
2) a Moonbase and 3) a Disaster or two (since Earthquake or [preferably] Meteor
Strike are the only Disasters that can touch a Moonbase, having these is vital).
Drop the Moonbase; link the appropriate Personalities (or all of them if you're
Unmasking); hit the 'base with the Disaster(s). Show your Goal/Unmask as
Cthulhu, and it's game over. This can be done with as few as six Personalities,
if you Rewrite History on the Moonbase.

Deck design by Mike
Dalton.