Alien Nation

Aaron Curtis
Illuminati

    UFOs 

Group Cards

    Australia
    England
    Germany
    Gun Lobby
    Israel
    NATO
    New York
    Pentagon
    Russia
    Switzerland
    Texas
    Clipper Chip
    Crystal Skull
    Rogue Boomer 

Plot Cards

    Are We Having Fun Yet?
    Back to the Salt Mines
    Beach Party x3
    Blitzkrieg
    Dictatorship
    Emergency Powers
    Giant Kudzu
    Good Polls
    Hoax
    Ketchup is a Vegetable
    Martial Law
    Near Miss x2
    No Beer!
    Nuclear Accident
    Slush Fund
    Terrorist Nuke
    Tidal Wave
    World Cup Victory x2
    NWO Fear and Loathing
    NWO Gun Control x3
    NWO World War Three x2
    Goal: Population Reduction
    Goal: Up Against the Wall 

The aliens have landed! Unfortunately for the unsuspecting earthlings, we're not
friendly, and we won't rest until we've replaced or destroyed every national
government on Earth. Then the colonization begins...
Lead

Lead with the Gun Lobby. It won't bounce. Why do you think we've been kidnapping
redneck gun nuts for the last fifty years? They have money! In fact, the worse
things get, the more they seem to have...
Seduction of the Not-So-Innocent

Note that almost all of your agents are in powerful Violent and Conservative
places; they're just like the gun nuts, only their guns are bigger. Use your
ATOs to bring out your non-Nation places (and NATO). Texas is prefered, being
the only place which is both Conservative and Violent. NATO is prefered once you
have some powerful places in play.

If possible, spend an Illuminati action to bring out a Resource each turn. The
first should be your chief agent of intimidation, the Rogue Boomer. With the
Boomer and NATO, you have a +9 to control any Nation. Combining this with a +8
alignment bonus means you should have little trouble controlling Nations from
hand. Try to take only one per turn. Nations to control, in order of preference,
are: Germany, Australia, Russia, Israel, Switzerland. The exception is England:
only Government, Power 2/2, but their extra token is immensely useful if you can
boost their power. If you get Emergency Power or Dictatorship in hand, ATO
England as soon as possible.

The Crystal Skull should be taken as soon as possible, because you don't have a
Forgery. The Clipper Chip is third choice, and should wait until you have at
least two Government groups in play.
When Guns Are Outlawed, Only Aliens Will Have Guns

Around about the midgame, the so-called illuminated Earthlings will start to
feel nervous about all this power you've acquired, especially with your Clipper
Chip technology and Gun Control policy. Assure them that you don't want power
for it's own sake. (side note: Although it would be fairly easy to win with
PFIOS with this deck, it's significantly more fun the other way. Tell the other
players that you don't have PFIOS in your deck, and make sure they believe you.)

You will be attacked, the superstitious fools. It is almost inevitable that some
natural or unnatural disaster will come your way. You Alien technology should
assure that even the worst disaster should only Nearly Miss the Beach Party,
cancelling its effect completely. Even better, each and every attack will cause
millions of concerned gun lovers to flow funds into your war chest. If they dare
attack in a more direct fashion, the high power of your puppets, your several
+10 cards, and, if necessary, Good Polls will serve well toward preventing
success, and the Gun Lobby will contribute again and again.
Preparing for Sicklestroke

You should draw your last group between your 5th and 7th turn, depending on
whether you spend Illuminati tokens to draw groups or not. Once you have the
Crystal Skull, you want to go through your plot deck as fast as possible by
placing the two non-chosen plots on the bottom of your deck each time. For your
endgame, you want to have lots of plots in hand, which means spending one turn
doing nothing but looking defensive. If possible, play Good Polls the turn
before your bid for victory.
The Endgame

Get your NWOs in play if you can. Then, start taking over the remaining Nations
in your hand, spending only a single action token per attack. If your rivals
stop you, try again with another group with two like alignments. If you start
running low, play one of your own disasters on a place without an action token
and no puppets. No Beer! is particularly useful against Texas, Germany or
Australia. If the target is Violent, you want the attack to Devastate, not
destroy. Draw a plot from gun Lobby, then play Beach Party to give the target a
token. Once you take over a group, play Blitzkrieg to give it a token so it can
attack, too. Now, you want to destroy your non-Violent and/or Huge groups,
depending on what Goal you have. So, starting with Australia and Germany, play
your disasters to wipe them out. Alternately, if World War Three is in play, you
can make direct attacks to destroy from your non-Conservative Nations; the power
will be tripled (but you get -4 for alignment) AND you get another action token
and a plot for succeeding (plus another from the Gun Lobby)!

Naturally, your opponents will try to stop you. Let them, the first several
times. Once they have exhausted themselves, you can play your disaster/Beach
Party combo to reload, then use your Back to the Salt Mines to take over and/or
destroy the remaining necessary groups. If they are too much for you, you can
still play Ketchup is a Vegetable to sneak in a extra destroyed Government group
and win with Up Against the Wall.
Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: September 20, 1997

Last modified: September 20, 1997
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
