INWO Deck - The Acronymicon
by Brian Strassman

Why do you think those government agencies have all those acronyms anyway? Do
they make it easier for the bureaucrats to talk about them? No! It's so you
don't know what they're doing when they try to take over the world! But now,
they're all under _your_ control...

The Deck
Illuminati

    Bavarian Illuminati 

Groups

    AMA
    BATF
    CIA
    CFL-AIO
    EPA
    FBI
    IRS
    MI-5
    NASA
    NSA
    WITCH
    Bill Clinton 

Resources

    Center For Weird Studies
    Clipper Chip
    Cyborg Soldiers
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers
    Perpetual Motion Machine 

Plots

    Servants of Cthulhu
    (NWO) Antitrust Legislation x2
    (NWO) Gun Control
    (Zap!) Anarchists Unite! x2
    (Zap!) Sorry, Wrong Number x2
    Are We Having Fun Yet? x2
    Blitzkrieg
    Crop Circles x2
    Exorcism x2
    Giant Kudzu
    Good Polls x2
    Market Manipulation
    Martial Law x2
    Nevermore!
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know x2
    Seize The Time!
    Senate Investigating Committee
    Unmasked! 

Strategy
Lead
If the Gnomes of Zurich are playing, lead with the IRS to try to cause him to
bounce. If not, lead with Bill Clinton, as he gives the best chance to expand
your power structure quickly.

Game Play
Look at the Illuminati groups of your rivals, since they will determine your
deck's overall strategy. Your deck is heavy on Government groups, and that is
what this deck is designed to do primarily: expand with your Government groups
and get out a Clipper Chip, Cyborg Soldiers, and Gun Control to boost their
power for Bavaria's special goal. Pretty standard stuff for Bavaria, really.
However, if you see that your rivals are playing either the Gnomes of Zurich or
the Society of Assassins, you have some new options for victory...

Your Enemies
The Gnomes of Zurich -- You have a ton of Government groups, plus the CFL-AIO in
your corner. Show the corps who the real boss is! Go on the offensive once they
have their power structure built up to a decent level. Use your Antitrust
Legislations to force them to reorganize their Corporate groups away from each
other, thus negating the alignment bonuses for defense. Play Sorry, Wrong Number
on them to strip the protection of their Illuminati from them. Using the
CFL-AIO, backed by the power of your Gov't agencies, you shouldn't have any
problems destroying their most powerful groups. Link the Perpetual Motion
Machine to the CFL-AIO for even more fun...

The Society of Assassins -- If any of your rivals are playing a Society of
Assassins deck using Fanatic groups, you have the BATF in your corner. Link the
Cyborg Soldiers to them and get your Gun Control NWO out to boost the BATF's
power to its fullest.

With both of these options, you'll most likely want to unmask as the Servants of
Cthulhu and claim victory that way. Using your Crop Circles (powered by actions
from WITCH) should allow you to get both cards in your hand when you need them.

The Endgame
Well, there isn't one, really. After all, this is basically a Bavaria power
deck, and you'll either have won with your special goal, or by unmasking as
Cthulhu.

