An Oliver Stone Production

by Steve Brinich

Concept: Start with the two Media groups that naturally fit a Secret deck (Junk
Mail and Tabloids). Add the Subliminals and some more Media to pump them up.
Combine into a secret conspiracy gone Hollywood.
Illuminati

    Society of Assassins 

Group Cards

    Big Media
    Cable TV
    Clone Arrangers
    Dittoheads
    Hollywood
    The Hour of Slack
    Junk Mail
    Nancy Reagan
    Recording Industry
    Reverend Ivan Stang
    Ronald Reagan
    Rosicrucians
    Subliminals (x2)
    Tabloids
    Templars
    Blivit 

Plot Cards

    The Big Score
    Blood, Toil, Tears, and Sweat
    Clone
    Cover-Up
    Don't Touch That Dial
    Eat The Rich!
    Exposed! (x2)
    Hat Trick
    Media Blitz
    Monopoly
    Power Grab
    Privileged Attack
    Pulitzer Prize
    Purge
    Rant!
    Read My Lips
    Rewriting History
    S.C.A.M.
    Scandal
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know
    Stock Split
    Supreme Court Nomination
    Swiss Bank Account
    Talisman of Ahrimanes
    The World Ends Tomorrow And You May Die!
    Whispering Campaign 

Opening

Your strongest opening groups are Big Media, Clone Arrangers, and Junk Mail.
Clone Arrangers is the most useful of these groups -- and for that very reason
it's the most likely to bounce. Don't worry too much if it does; this will
probably hurt you less than it hurts the other guy.

In a game without automatic takeovers, you need to start with a group that will
help you bring out your Secret groups (Clone Arrangers or Junk Mail).

If there's another Society of Assassins in the game and Junk Mail bounces, your
best bet may be to lead with Big Media, develop a straightforward Media Power
Structure, and take Junk Mail and Tabloids away from him later.
Midgame
Groups

Most of your Power Structure development will parallel the usual development of
a Media Personality deck. Bring out Big Media, Cable TV, Hollywood, and/or
Recording Industry, along with Media Personalities.

Bring out the Subliminals when you have 3-5 Media groups in play. As an
alignment-free Secret group, they'll be tough to attack, but make them a puppet
of Big Media if possible so that Big Media can defend them.

Bring out your other Secret groups as opportunities arise.
Resources

The Blivit is essentially a defensive Resource, used to prevent rivals from
doing nasty things to you with Bigfoot, Hallucinations, the Orbital Mind Control
Lasers, etc.
Plots

Exposed! can be used defensively, to strip the Secrecy of groups that threaten
your Secret groups, or as an endgame ploy, to strip the Secrecy of rival Secret
groups so that your remaining Secret groups become qualified to count double for
victory. Try to avoid the former if at all possible; it reminds people about the
latter.

Purge is intended to protect the Clone Arrangers, but might be needed to protect
a key Media group if you're facing another Media deck.

Normally, the Tabloids' special ability is a two-edged sword -- all your groups
can aid, but all your rivals' groups can oppose. A Privileged Attack will blunt
the back side of that sword (as long as at least one Secret group or Illuminati
aids the attack).

Eat the Rich and Scandal are heavy-duty offensive cards. Try to aim them at
targets that everybody else wants to see taken down, so that you don't draw too
much negative attention to yourself.
Endgame

Hold Rewriting History in reserve to break up a rival's victory attempt. Note
that if you use Rewriting History to foil a "control X destroy Y" goal, the Goal
card will be exposed, and vulnerable to the Templars, after the victory attempt
fails.

Build toward victory in straightforward fashion, possibly with a last-minute
Exposed! on a powerful rival Secret group.
Pitfalls

Dan Quayle and Elvis can cancel your Media actions. Hit them with a Whispering
Campaign, or present them with a Supreme Court Nomination and have your Media
trash 'em.

Rivals are likely to have Clone Arrangers agents. Don't make this group a main
root of your Power Structure unless it's been Purged.
Deck Variants

Other possibly useful groups include Girlie Magazines, Gordo Remora, Media
Sensation, Professional Sports, and Shock Jocks.

The Orbital Mind Control Lasers and Ollie North can be a powerful combo against
a rival's Media groups -- make one of them Conservative and Ollie has +12 to
take it over (special ability plus alignment), with another +4 if you have Big
Media. On the other hand, bringing out the OMCL is like putting on a "Kick Me"
sign.

The Flying Saucer and Immortality Serum are always useful Resources for a
Personality-heavy deck.

Plots that could enhance this deck include Alien Abduction, Miracle Diet Plan
(especially if you add another Science group), Let the Sunshine In, Pizza for
the Secret Meeting (a cheap but temporary substitute for Exposed!), and
Plot-exposers such as Agent In Place, Mutual Betrayal, Security Leak, etc (to
complement the Templars' special ability). The deck has a number of
Personality-aiding Plots; others such as Official, Divine, All-Purpose Excuse or
Sweepstakes Prize can be used as well.
Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: September 13, 1998
Last modified: Sun Sep 13 16:29:01 EDT 1998
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
