

A One With Everything has 1 of each of the cards in the limited edition of INWO.
Except the illuminati themselves, of which there are 3 copies of each. So,
putting a new spin on the OWE theme, I decided to put 3 Cthulhu players in the
same game. That should make the game very fast paced and furious indeed.

To this I added an optional 4th deck, making the decks suitable for both 3 and 4
players. This UFO deck is unlike anything that I've ever done, in that it only
has 5 actual groups in the group deck. This adds an element of negotiation to
the game, as each hard pressed Cthulhu player attempted to win the favour of
that all important 4th player, while the UFO player secretly worked towards his
own ends. The all-Cthulhu 3 player version is probably best suited for "beer and
pretzels" style games, while the 4 player version adds a huge element of
diplomacy to the set-up.

Deck Construction

The decks are built assuming three or four players, automatic takeovers, and a
basic goal of eleven groups.

The 3 Cthulhu decks are designed around a single alignment each, and the group
deck consists partly of groups that are good at attacking, and partly by groups
that will make ideal targets for its rivals! Added to this was a single group
that would be hard to destroy. Finally, I added as many destructive plots as I
could find. The UFO deck, on the other hand, consists of 5 secret groups that
are almost untouchable by the servants of Cthulhu, giving the UFO player the
necessary means to survive. These groups, and all the plots that go with them,
were selected in order to make sure that the UFO player could terrorize anyone
who refused to cooperate - let alone attacked him.

While the Cthulhu players are aided by ancient magic artifacts, the UFO player
relies on an impressive collection of technological gadgets, and other non-magic
resources.

Deck Description

Each deck description follows a standard format. It opens with a short
description of the situation and a brief explanation of why you are involved in
the struggle for world domination. This is followed by the card lists -
Illuminati, Groups, and Plots. The Strategy section describes the feel of the
deck in game terms, points out important card combinations or foes, and suggests
possible leads. Preferably, each player should have a print-out of his deck
description and deck list available to him before the game begins.

General Guidelines

The strategy sections describe unique and interesting features of each deck, but
most of the advice given in The INWO Book also applies. Make sure you also check
the latest errata and rules changes at http://www.sjgames.com/inwo/errata/.

Flexibility is vital. There is no guarantee that you will get the cards you
really want, so make the best of what you do get.

At the end of this document you'll find a card listing of all of the cards in
this deck set, sorted by card type, and within that sorted alphabetically. This
should make it easier to construct the decks from a One With Everything set.
