4. Deus Ex Machina

You are the great ancient one, you are Cthulhu! Well, actually, you're not, but
you've been pretending to be for quite a while, and you've made the manlings
dance to your tune. But it's getting old. Therefore you've given the fanatics
the impression that the end is near, in the hope that you can use the ensuing
carnage to lay your hands on what you're really after!

Deck Listing

Illuminati
   UFOs

Groups
   Cattle Mutilators 
   Clone Arrangers 
   Rosicrucians 
   Templars 
   The Men in Black 
   Center for Weird Studies 
   Cyborg Soldiers 
   Flying Saucer 
   Hidden City 
   Mercenaries 
   Midas Mill 
   Orbital Mind Control Lasers 
   Perpetual Motion Machine 

Plots
   Agent in Place
   Angst
   Are We Having Fun Yet?
   Combined Disaster
   Cover of Darkness
   Cover-Up
   Deep Agent
   Embezzlement
   Hat Trick
   Hex
   Hidden Influence
   Hoax
   I Lied
   Logic Bomb
   Privileged Attack
   Reach Out...
   Sabotage
   The Internet Worm
   The Stars are Right
   The Weak link
   The Weird Turn Pro
   Unlucky 13
   Unmasked!
   Upheaval
   Illuminati: Adepts of Hermes
   Illuminati: Bermuda Triangle
   Illuminati: Gnomes of Zurich
   Goal: Fratricide
   NWO: Energy Crisis
   NWO: Solidarity
   NWO: World Hunger

Strategy

Consider the facts: You're in a game with 3 cthulhu players, and you haven't got
enough groups to win the game. There is no shame in pulling off a shared
victory. Then again, if you can trick your partner at the moment of triumph - so
much the better! This is a game where you have to get stuck in. Make deals,
sweet talk and threaten. Be the kingmaker. Then stick a knife in his back if you
have to - or want to.
One thing is certain: If you don't get involved in the diplomacy, then you can't
win the game.

The good news are, your rivals don't have any secret groups. This means that the
largest attack that they can muster against you has a power of 31, (3 cthulhu
tokens, and the destruction bonus). Keep this figure in mind, so that you know
what to keep for defense, and remember that if one of them spends his illuminati
token, you have a lot less to fear.

Bring your groups, except the rosicrucians. The rosicrucians are hard to defend,
and are good for bringing on that extra group and choice plot, when you're
getting close to victory. Also, as long as you have only 4 groups, all of them
can be adjacent to your illuminati, for that little extra protection.

You probably won't be able to muster that many attacks yourself in the course of
the game, so most of the time you'll be sitting on your tokens. But that doesn't
mean that you can't interfere in what the other players do. In fact, this is
where you get a lot of your bargaining power from. Once pumped up and fully
operational, you'll have power 10 illuminati tokens, meaning that you can
effectively swing the force of any attack by 20! And you can easily get 3 of
these. Men in Black and Mercenaries are worth 10 more power, as long as you're
helping the attacker.

Remember, you may start out being all helpful, but sooner or later you should
start charging for your services.

With very few exceptions, your plot cards are for threatening or punishing the
other players, or simply for softening up whoever your (current) champion is
picking on. Only a few need explaining: Upheaval will deprive an attacker of his
target, and if played when a player is about to eliminate his rivals last group,
you'll cost him 2 "kills", while moving yourself closer to Fratricide. Reach Out
is risky, but at the right time, it might spell doom for whoever has been a
thorn in your side. I Lied is best for breaking up a shared victory, but by all
means - be creative. Finally, Hat Trick is a key card, so think carefully about
which plot you take back.

You have 4 ways of winning.
Fratricide is an option - just tag along with whoever is eliminating a rival. As
mentioned, upheaval may keep him from reaching the game winning 8th destruction,
while being perfectly fine for your Fratricide.
If trying for an Adepts win, you should let your rivals pay you with magic
resources. This might not be so hard, since that way they aren't losing any
groups. You might even trade some of your resources for theirs. Either way,
Cover of Darkness and Hex or The Weak Link can get you that last magic resource.
To win as bermuda, you need to trade your way into groups with 4 alignments. The
remaining 2 can be created with the Orbital Mind Control Lasers.
As for the Gnomes win, you need to get (at least) 2 groups, one of which will
count double for the Gnomes. The remaining 2 doubled groups can be generated by
the Orbital Mind Control
Lasers.