Attack of the Deadly Ninja Throwing Conventions Deck
by Darrin Bright

[Webmaster's Note: the Anti-Trust Legislation card has recently been changed.
However, it should not significantly upset the balance of this deck. Please keep
in mind that ATL now requires 3 Plot discards in order to completely reorganize
your Power Structure. - SCM 8/29/2000 ]

See what kind of trouble your offhand comments can get into once they leave your
possession? Welcome to week two of CthulhuCon!

Card Data
Illuminati:

    Servants of Cthulhu

Groups:

    CIA
    Evil Geniuses for a Better Tomorrow
    General Disorder
    Gun Lobby
    Ninjas
    South American Nazis
    Survivalists
    Texas
    WITCH

Resources:

    Center for Weird Studies
    Crystal Skull
    Cyborg Soldiers

Plots:

    Annual Convention x6
    Beach Party
    Crop Circles x2
    Forgery
    Good Polls
    Hoax
    Hurricane x6
    March on Washington
    New Blood x2
    Savings & Loan Scam
    Sorry, Wrong Number
    Sufficiently Advanced Technology
    Terrorist Nuke x2
    Truck Bomb x2
    NWO Yellow: Antitrust Legislation
    NWO Red: Australian Rules
    NWO Blue: Global Warming
    Goal: Hail Eris!

Strategy
Overview

    This deck took a long time to develop, so hopefully you'll forgive me if
this overview is a bit long-winded. The original idea most likely belongs to
Alex Yeager, who made an offhand comment about his infamous "Annual Convention"
deck a long time ago... at least a year or two, I don't remember exactly. When I
finally got around to asking him about it, he told me that he'd never actually
developed a working Annual Convention deck, but he did send me a rough outline
of how one might work... I think it might have been based on Christian Stenner's
even more infamous Oil-Spill-laden Essen Deck. The problem with Alex's idea was
that it depended rather heavily on the right balance of bonuses, and could
easily be thrown out of whack when the wrong NWO comes out... If the power of
your place gets too high, you're not as likely to devastate... too low and you
run a good chance of destroying it.

    He did say that Seth Cohen was working on one, and I asked Seth about it and
he sent me a writeup for "No One Is Safe" (now DotW #73), and although that deck
did use two copies of Annual Convention, it didn't really use them as
effectively as I would have liked.

    When I sat down to develop my own deck, I took my own approach to it, using
Hurricanes instead of Oil Spills to avoid any chances of accidental
destructions. Cthulhu was the obvious choice for Illuminati, but to get all
those attacks off you need a good way to get a lot of plots in a hurry. My first
inclination was to use one of my favorite DotW winner, Rudolf Gross' Lambs to
the Slaughter.

    Lambs to the Slaughter is a perfect example of what a DotW winner should be,
partly because it's obscenely abusive but mostly because it takes a few
lower-powered cards everybody overlooks and finds some very high-powered things
you can do with them. All I needed was a Violent and/or Conservative coastal
place that could be easily devastated with a hurricane. Israel seemed a perfect
fit... it wasn't huge but had decent power, gave a nice bonus to control Mossad
(good for plot control), and you could pump it up with Gun Control and still
easily devastate it. On the first run through, though, there were several
problems. First of all, a power 9 Annual Convention isn't all that impressive,
and then I discovered Cthulhu doesn't get it's bonus to destroy since it isn't a
disaster or an assassination (I know, I know, but that's the ruling... ugh). So
to power up the Annual Convention, I had to put in the South American Nazis and
a bunch of Weird Science groups. I like my group decks to be fairly light, and
my Cthulhu decks even lighter, so there were too many groups and it took too
long to get big Weird Science groups to do any real damage. Besides, since when
is Israel known for it's hurricane season?

    So I went back to the drawing board and started over, experimenting with the
Gnomes, replacing Israel with two copies of Texas (Partition!) and a Bank of
England/Nasa combo for plots. Same problem, though... by the time I had Texas,
Bank of England, Nasa, and my Weird Science groups out, I was so close to the
basic goal there was no point in destroying any groups with Annual Conventions.

    Then I realized that Annual Convention lets weird science *and* magic groups
aid... and the Ninjas were magic! I went back to the Lambs to the Slaughter idea
and cleaned it up a bit. I'd forgotten that in the original Lambs to the
Slaughter deck, you get New Blood and Cyborg Soldiers hooked up to the Ninjas as
soon as possible. This is actually where the Lambs to the Slaughter deck stops,
because it doesn't really give you anything interesting to do with all those
power 12 Ninja tokens, but I think my deck answers that problem velry nicely...
launch a bunch of power 21 Annual Conventions at your helpless opponents! I kept
Texas because it's a natural hurricane magnet, and Cthulhu's bonus *did* apply
to hurricanes so I could put in the Survivalists for easy relief and still get a
10 or less on the roll to devastate. I left in the South American Nazis and a
couple Weird Science groups, added the CIA for a little more oomph, the global
power, and the assassination ability, since there wasn't much room in the plot
deck for assassinations. What you don't get with the Annual Conventions you can
mop up with the Truck Bombs. Anyway, thanks to Alex for the original idea, and
thanks to Rudolf Gross for the basic design. Special thanks to Seth Cohen and
Kevin Kennedy for sharing their own ideas and for constructive feedback.

Beginning

    Start off by leading with the CIA. Although this isn't really a violent
government deck, it's got a nice bonus to take Texas. You don't exactly need the
global power (all your groups are monochrome violent) but it's nice to have
around. The CIA is a popular lead, especially if Bavaria is playing, so at the
very least you want to make sure no one else gets it out. If the CIA bounces,
your next best lead is the South American Nazis, which has at least a +8 to
control over half your groups. If no one is playing any Cthulhu or
disaster-happy decks, Texas is also a very strong lead. Otherwise, try WITCH.

    If you've already got New Blood in hand and Cyborg Soldiers ready to go,
feel free to ATO the Ninjas on turn one and hook them up to power 12 (subtlety
isn't exactly one of the strong points of this deck). Otherwise ATO Texas and
attack to control one of your Violent Conservative groups with it, preferably
the Survivalists to help discourage rival disasters.

    Bring out the Center for Weird Studies early, but be careful what you
discard to power it. If you drew extra Hurricanes or Annual Conventions early,
you can discard one to power the Center, March on Washington, or Hoax and still
have a good chance of drawing more later. With only one Hoax and only one of
each color NWO there isn't a lot of room for error when you have to discard
plots. Whenever you have to discard from the top of the deck, make sure you
discard from your hand first so you don't discard anything important.

Midgame

    Once you've got a turn or two under your belt, the first order of business
is to get the Gun Lobby and Ninjas out. The rest of your game depends on playing
New Blood on the Ninjas, so if it isn't in hand yet then you're going to have to
go digging for it. The key focus of midgame (and to a certain extent endgame) is
all about plot control. The Crystal Skull is the best way to get the plots you
need out of your plot deck. Be careful of a rival Adepts player, though... he's
probably got his own Crystal Skull he wants to bring out, so you may want to
wait until he does and play Forgery on him. If it's still early in the game,
don't be afraid to put Hurricanes and Annual Conventions at the bottom of your
plot deck if you don't have room for them in your hand... if everything goes
right, you can get enough plot draws in the endgame to draw your entire plot
deck.

    Use the Gun Lobby's special ability to get all those plot draws you need by
launching failed attacks on the Ninjas, but be careful if your opponents have
enough tokens to make the attack succeed... use your defensive plots to make
sure the attack fails. If you can get away with attacking the Ninjas without
announcing Cthulhu's +4 bonus to destroy, do so... once you roll the dice, you
can invoke the Oops! rule. Crafty rivals probably won't fall for this more than
once, though, and force you to take the bonus on subsequent attacks. Even so, a
-6 penalty to any attack is almost as good as a -10. If you run out of tokens,
dropping an extra hurricane on Texas as an easy way to get a plot via the Gun
Lobby special ability.

    If the Crystal Skull can't get you what you need, grab a Crop Circles. If
you don't have any magic groups out yet, March on Washington or Sufficiently
Advanced Technology can provide you with a magic token. Once you've got New
Blood for your Ninjas, your next order of business is to get at least one
Hurricane and one Annual Convention in hand. Unless something really juicy comes
along that's too good to pass up (like a stray personality hanging out in the
open), don't destroy anything until you're ready for the endgame. Although your
rivals may have guessed what you're up to, you don't want to antagonize them
into ganging up on you. And besides, it's just so much more impressive to
destroy everything in one sweeping carnival of carnage. But your rivals don't
necessarily have to know this... offer not to attack them if they'll do the same
for you.

Endgame

    When you're ready to wipe the table clean, load up your Ninjas with tokens
by attacking them with your own groups, starting with Texas and the
Survivalists. If you've drawn Sorry, Wrong Number at this point, now is a good
time to play it on that particular rival that has made things difficult for you.
Play any other plots you need to put in play because once you start tossing
around disasters, the Annual Conventions need to be played immediately
afterwards.

    Time for Hurricane season... drop a Hurricane on Texas, draw a plot, play
Annual Convention, and (if successful) draw another plot. Rinse and repeat. When
you run out of tokens on the Ninjas, launch a few more failed attacks. Save your
WITCH and other magic tokens for powering a Crop Circles if you come up short on
a Hurricane or Annual Convention. March on Washington can provide an extra token
if you're short, or could even be used to attack the Ninjas (it's a power six
action, right?). When you run out of Annual Conventions, drop a couple of Truck
Bombs on anything left standing. Hang on to your Hoax to deal with any cancel
plots and Global Warming to deal with Interesting Times.

    Texas and its puppets won't count towards victory if they are devastated.
You can either wait until the turn after yours and let the Survivalists
automatically relieve Texas, or throw a Beach Party. If you're still short
groups, use Hail Eris! to make WITCH and your Weird Science groups count double.

Potential Problems

    The two Illuminatis that can make your life most difficult are probably
going to be the Adepts or Shangri-La. The Adepts have a +6 to control or destroy
the Ninjas. If the Adepts come after you, and you already have all your key
plots, try offering him the Crystal Skull to buy yourself a little breathing
room. If the Adepts already have a lot of magic resources, you can then incite
the other players to bring him down a notch or two by claiming he's now too
close to victory.

    The biggest threat from Shangri-La (other than the general inclination to
destroy small Violent groups) is that he might play Kinder & Gentler on the
Ninjas. If there's a strong possibility for this, try not to give him the
opportunity by holding off on boosting the Ninja's power. He's more likely to
K&G your bigger groups like CIA and Texas. Otherwise trade out your Cyborg
Soldiers for the Necronomicon and the KKK for the Survivalists. Keep him on the
defensive by hitting him with Sorry Wrong Number, lobbing Hurricanes at his
coastal places, and Truck Bombing his other groups.

    Discordia can also be a concern if he decides he wants any of your Weird
groups, and he's harder to intimidate when he's immune to two of your largest
groups. He makes a better ally than enemy (especially if he has more Weird
science/magic groups to aid your Annual Conventions), so make a peace offering
or find out which of the other players is annoying him most and work together.

    Next to Shangri-La, the biggest threat to watch out for are alignment
changers like the OMCLs. Unfortunately, I didn't put in any alignment-changers
or resource-killers... this is probably one of the bigger blind spots in the
deck, since the OMCLs tend to be rather popular. If you run into this problem,
try substituting in a Weak Link, Deasil Engine, or Killer Satellite. Backlash
would also be good here.

    And finally, Nevermore and Interesting Times can really ruin your day
(indeed, there are few decks that can't be stopped by these two cards). To make
room for all those instant attack plots I could only fit in one Hoax and one
blue NWO, so this deck is particularly vulnerable to either of these cards. If
your play group likes to use them, take out a Hurricane and an Annual Convention
for another Hoax and a Blue NWO like World Hunger or Global Warming.

Substitutions

    The hardest part of putting this deck together is finding enough Annual
Conventions. If your play group is cool with proxies, that might be the best way
to go. If not, load up on more Truck Bombs if they're more easily available, and
do an all-Truck-Bomb deck. If you can't scrape up enough Instant Attack cards,
just stick with normal attacks and put in an unhealthy supply of Terrorist Nukes
and Harmonica Virgins.

    If you don't have a Crystal Skull, the Shroud of Turin or Mossad can make a
passable substitute.

    I put in the Center for Weird Studies instead of the PMM because the Center
is a little more flexible... with the PMM you have to decide which group gets
the extra token at the beginning of your turn, whereas you're not linked to any
particular group with the Center. If an attack unexpectedly fails or you need to
move a group in a hurry, the Center can accomodate plans that suddenly change in
the middle of the turn. Also, the PMM's popularity makes it difficult to hold on
to, but your individual playing style may vary. The Book of Kells is another
possibility... not quite as flexible but the extra magic token can be very
useful.

    The CIA is really only in the deck to help take over Texas, so it can be
easily replaced with either the Republicans or another big Violent group.
Congressional Wives would also work.

    Any Conservative or Violent place can be used instead of Texas. Israel,
Russia, or Switzerland would work... but really, none of those places are known
for their trailer parks, are they?

    The South American Nazis and rare Weird Science groups aren't an absolute
necessity. Actually, a Violent Criminal angle using Criminal Overlords instead
of Hail Eris might be more effective. Put in the Corrective Phrenologists and it
could get downright ugly…

Back to Deck of the Week
