Attack of the Plot Bandits

by Aaron Curtis
This is a descendant of my Double Predator deck, invigorated by Assassins! It
gives you incredible control over your opponents' plots, with multiple
opportunities to view, discard, and (especially) steal them.
Illuminati

    The Network 

Group Cards

    Arms Dealers
    Cattle Mutilators
    Fraternal Orders
    Illuminati University
    IRS
    Las Vegas
    N.S.A.
    Phone Company
    Post Office
    W.I.T.C.H.
    Book of Kells
    Center for Weird Studies
    Eliza x2
    Flying Saucer
    Suicide Squad x2
    X-Ray Specs 

Plot Cards

    An Offer You Can't Refuse
    The Auditor From Hell x3
    Computer Virus x3
    Cover of Darkness
    Embezzlement
    Go Fish x3
    Harmonica Virgins
    Hat Trick x2
    Infobahn
    March on Washington
    Murphy's Law x2
    Near Miss
    Power Grab x2
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know x2
    NWO: Antitrust Legislation
    NWO: Apathy 

Strategy

Lead with Fraternal Orders. The group deck is almost half Resources, and you'll
be playing them quickly, so you need the extra group card they give you to avoid
running out. If you bounce, use your extra Eliza token to draw a group each turn
until they show up. Your best backup lead is N.S.A., followed by IRS (if Zurich
isn't playing) or Phone Company.

Be aware that this deck makes no attacks to control from hand. Every ATO should
be used for a Group, and you have two Power Grabs which should be used at first
opportunity. For Resources, play, if possible, your Flying Saucer the first turn
you don't have a Power Grab, and use it to take one Resource every turn. If it's
buried in your deck, bring out Eliza, and use the extra Illuminati token to play
a Resource each turn

What order to ATO Groups depends on what's in your hand. There are two pairs of
Groups that work best in tandem; Cattle Mutilators and Arms Dealers, and Las
Vegas and Illuminati University (note: Experience shows it's better to have
Cattle Mutilators control Arms Dealers, and IOU control Las Vegas). If either
pair is in your initial draw, take that pair at once with a Power Grab. Failing
that, play (in order of usefulness) N.S.A., IRS, Phone Company, W.I.T.C.H., and
lastly Post Office. Be careful with IRS if Zurich is in the game; If he plays
IRS or Federal Reserve you'd be best to keep your copy as an agent for the
inevitable Attack to Destroy.

The (general) order you want to take your Resources is Flying Saucer, Eliza,
Book of Kells, Center for Weird Studies, another Eliza, X-Ray Specs, and lastly
your Suicide Squads.
Step 1: The Information Gatherers

The least upsetting thing you can do to your opponents is view their plots. The
N.S.A. and Phone Company can do this for free each turn, which is why they are
high on the list of groups to take. Once you have Illuminati University and Las
Vegas out, you can link X-Ray Specs to IOU to allow them to look at the top six
plots in any deck, twice if you also link the Book of Kells to them. Because of
this, having IOU in your power structure makes these Resources a higher priority
than otherwise. Also, The Auditor from Hell and Go Fish plots allow you to look
at a rival's plot hand. Be sure to take notes! You'll need to know what's on top
of their decks, what's in their hands, and what has been discarded. Notation: I
make a column of the plots from their deck, put a slash / when a plot goes into
their hand, and an X when it gets discarded.
Step 2: The Scheme Exposers

A slightly more upsetting thing you can do to your opponents is expose their
plots. The Cattle Mutilators can do this with an action, and so can the Phone
Company (but they only expose two random plots). You can also choose to expose
plots rather than steal one when you play The Auditor from Hell. The reason to
do this, aside from the obvious benefit of showing your rival's hand to all
players, is that Arms Dealers can trade any plot(s) in your hand for any exposed
plot(s) of a rival. If you end your turn with an action on the Arms Dealers, any
exposed plot in the game can become yours in the blink of an eye, which is great
for defense. This is why you want to bring Cattle Mutilators and Arms Dealers in
as a unit, ideally with Power Grab, but CM followed by AD the next turn if
necessary.
The Plot Bandits

The most upsetting thing you can do is steal their plots. Lots of them. You're
going to need them, too. The easiest way to steal a plot is with the IRS,
because it's free. The most effective way to steal plots is with Las Vegas. Las
Vegas can "bet" up to three plots with a rival, then draw them from his deck if
the roll of two dice is 7 or more. He gets your plots if the roll is 6 or less,
but you cheat. You can modify this roll with W.I.T.C.H., Computer Virus, or, as
a last resort, Murphy's Law. Some quick probabilities: You win 58.3% of the time
normally. With W.I.T.C.H., 72.2% of the time. With Computer Virus, 83.3%. With
W.I.T.C.H. and Computer Virus, 91.7%. With Murphy's Law, 100%. Best of all, if
you have more than one of these at your disposal, you only need to use the
minimum necessary to win. Note, however, that Las Vegas is a fairly weak Place,
which is why you need Illuminati University to control it: It protects itself,
its master and puppets from Disasters, as well as Straight and Government
groups.

You also have four different plots that steal plots from rivals: The Auditor
from Hell, An Offer You Can't Refuse, Embezzlement, and Go Fish.

What do you do with all these plots? Keep the useful ones, of course, especially
any +10 cards that you can possibly use later. But when you draw from a rival's
deck you're bound to get some slag. Use these to pay the cost of Flying Saucer,
Illuminati University and Center for Weird Studies. CfWS is best used to reload
Las Vegas after a successful raid, or to reload The Network after a Murphy's
Law. If you find you still have leftovers, and you're expecting an attack, you
can put two useless plots on the top of your deck to power Secrets Man Was Not
Meant To Know. Just don't do this all the time, because you'll just end up
drawing them again if they don't get discarded by Secrets.

Important note: There are no plots in this deck so vital you can't afford to
lose some to a Secrets or a failed bet, or even to power IOU or Flying Saucer
before your Bandit Machine is in place.
Synergy in Action

The best part about this deck is how the three steps above work together. All
that information about your opponents' plot decks and hands is used to excellent
effect by your Bandit Machine. First, you're much more effective at stealing
useful plots when you know what's available. For example, you'd want to play An
Offer You Can't Refuse when you know a certain rival has two plot cards at the
top of his deck you know you can use, or Embezzlement when a rival is drawing a
particularly valuable plot. Even better, you can use those notes you've been
taking to pinpoint when an important plot is in a rival's hand, then play Go
Fish to steal the plot(s) AND force him to discard, with no risk! Your
information gathering can also warn you when you need to expose & trade plots
with a rival who's getting too close to victory. Finally, those useless stolen
plots are perfect for trading to opponents with Arms Dealers! By this method,
you maximize the gain you get from your efforts. To insure that you're getting
the better part of the trade, make sure that the plots you give away aren't more
valuable to your victim that they are to you, such as a +10 card that you can't
use but he can. Of the plots from your own deck, I would only consider trading
away the NWO's or March on Washington, and then only when necessary.

The last bit of synergy in this deck is the two Suicide Squads. They have a low
priority, unless you need to destroy a particular Resource (or draw your Cover
of Darkness early). The trick here is to use W.I.T.C.H. and Computer Virus to
bring the die roll down to 1 (a 2/3 chance of success), preserving the Squad
while destroying the Resource. Repeat as necessary.
Other Cards

The plots in the deck not previously mentioned are covered here. Near Miss is to
save Las Vegas from destruction. March on Washington is for when you steal a
useful plot that requires a characteristic you don't have, such as Media, but
can also be used to save an action token for the cost of another one of those
useless stolen plots. Hat Trick is so you can reuse your most effective plots,
such as Secrets, Murphy's Law or Go Fish. NWO: Apathy is for protection, because
this deck doesn't have many defenses. NWO: Antitrust Legislation is to replace
an End of the World (which removes the action from Las Vegas) or to "defensively
reorganize" in the middle of an attack. The two +10 cards, Harmonica Virgins and
Infobahn, should be hoarded and used only to defend a key group or make an
last-minute attack.
Victory?

Winning with this deck is more difficult than most, but it's quite possible.
Your three computer groups count double, which means you can lose two groups in
a 12-group game and still gain victory with ATO's alone. If you've lost more
than this, you'll have to make use of hoarded +10 cards to take what you need.
If that isn't enough, you may have to resort to a shared victory to get the
necessary support. Just remember that your first priority is to prevent someone
else from winning first.
Potential problems

1. Your groups keep showing up in other people's power structures before you can
ATO them.
    Try not to let on that they stole YOUR group. Wait for a vulnerable moment.
Be sure to expose his plots and trade for any defense cards he has. Then hit
them with your agents and a precious +10 card. Use W.I.T.C.H. and/or Computer
Virus if necessary. 
2. Someone plays the Flying Saucer before you do, or steals yours.
    Use your Eliza token each turn to take a resource. Take it back with Suicide
Squad + Cover of Darkness if you can. 
3. Someone plays Nevermore!
    This can actually be an great opportunity, if you have Cattle Mutilators and
Arms Dealers out. Be resigned to only getting to play your best plots once each.
But, as more and more plots get Nevermored, you'll be able to trade completely
worthless plots to your opponents with Arms Dealers for useful plots that
haven't been Nevermored yet. Make the most of it. 

Substitutions

This deck fits together like a jigsaw puzzle, with many required pieces. Of the
groups, Post Office can be replaced with any computer group with a power of 3 or
more; I suggest Moonbase because of its resistance to disasters. The IRS,
Fraternal Orders, or Cattle Mutilators & Arms Dealers can be excluded at the
cost of weakening the deck, but the remaining groups, including Illuminati
University, are required.

Removing any of the resources weakens the deck, although Eliza and Flying Saucer
are the most important. Clipper Chip is an OK replacement.

The eight plot stealer cards can be adjusted within its own group to fit what
cards you have. I would include another An Offer You Can't Refuse if I had one.
Note that this group could also include Agent in Place, Go, Lemmings, Go!, The
Internet Worm, Logic Bomb or Registered Trademark, but I didn't include these
because they were less effective and/or focused toward plot destruction rather
than plot stealing.
Variant: The Plot Killer

This is actually the original design, which the above deck evolved into. It has
one purpose: deplete one rival's plot deck entirely. This is a revenge deck, and
not likely to win, but it sure can be fun!
Groups:

Remove Arms Dealers, Cattle Mutilators, Fraternal Orders

Add China
Resources:

Remove Center for Weird Studies, one Suicide Squad
Plots:

Remove NWO: Apathy, Cover of Darkness

Add Go, Lemmings, Go!, The Internet Worm x3, NWO: Bigger Business, NWO: Tax
Reform
Strategy:

If you start with NWO: Tax Reform in hand, lead with IRS. Otherwise, lead with
N.S.A.. Your group deck is smaller, so Fraternal Orders is unnecessary. Take
groups and resources as before. China is to be controlled by Las Vegas, who is
in turn controlled by Illuminati University. Alternately, China can be
controlled by the Phone Company.

Before the game begins, you should have your victim picked out, preferably one
you have a gripe with (so you have an excuse). Every turn, or between your
turns, you're going to hit that person with everything you've got (note: because
of this strategy, don't try this deck in a three-player game, because you'll
just throw victory to the third player). View their plots, steal what's useful,
and play The Internet Worm on them as often as possible. Hat Trick it for twice
the effect if you can. Once you have IOU and Las Vegas out, hit them over and
over. Use Go Fish on them to steal and destroy their plots at the same time.
Play Go, Lemmings, Go! when they use Secrets, if possible.

If you can get Tax Reform and the IRS in play, bargain with the other players by
offering to give them their plots back. Keep your bargain, too; It's a great way
to win friends. Also, note that the fact that you're focusing on one player will
encourage the others to let you be, to avoid having to Suffer Your Wrath.

At some point around turn 5 (note: this is a *very* rough estimate), your victim
should run out of plots. This is your opportunity to win. All of your groups,
counting Computer groups double, add up to 12. With two Power Grabs, you should
get all your groups into play on your fifth turn. If you can make it, go for it.
Otherwise, try for a shared victory with another player. Failing that, you
should start destroying the plots of the other players. The effect of running
out of plots is that a player will realize he can't win, and save his action
tokens to stop other players from winning. When all players sink to this level,
you have a true stalemate, and you get to claim a moral victory ;-)
Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: February 28, 1997

Last modified: February 28, 1997
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
