INWO Deck: Beggar Your Neighbor
Premise
Have Brazil, Hawaii, and China linked to the Liquor Companies. This setup, along
with the SCA in play, means that you can stop up to 5 card draws! Use this to
slow down your rivals while building up your own strong Corporate structure.
With the OMCLs and the CFL-AIO, you can fall back on the Up Against The Wall
goal, or just beat the hell out of the other Gnomes players.
The Deck
Illuminati
Gnomes of Zurich

Groups

    Liquor Companies x 2
    Brazil
    Hawaii
    China
    Society for Creative Anarchism
    IRS
    Madison Avenue
    CFL-AIO
    Texas
    Nuclear Power Companies
    Bank of England
    Wall Street 

Resources

    Center For Weird Studies
    Perpetual Motion Machine
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers 

Plots

    (NWO) Bigger Business x 2
    (NWO) Chicken In Every Pot
    (Goal) Up Against The Wall
    18 1/2 Minute Gap
    Atomic Monster
    Bribery
    Commitment
    Early Warning
    Forgery
    Good Polls x 2
    Hat Trick
    Hoax
    Let's Get Organized
    Media Blitz
    Monopoly
    Mother's March
    Murphy's Law
    Power Grab
    Privatization
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know
    Seize The Time
    Sniper
    Stock Split x 2
    Tax Breaks
    Voodoo Economics 

Strategy
Card Specifics
Liquor Companies is a rare card, so it's understandable if you don't have two.If
you only have one Liquor Companies, then I would suggest replacing the other one
with another good Corporate group (Multinational Oil Companies comes to mind),
and then protect the Liquor Companies with everything you can muster. If they
are destroyed, throw all pretense of subtlety out the window and smash your way
to a Zurich special win.

Madison Avenue is in there to power the Media Blitz (to revive the Liquor
Companies if someone manages to destroy them), and to take over any juicy Media
groups that might happen to wander by. It's also Corporate and can be boosted by
Monopoly or by the Bigger Business NWO.

Texas was put in there for three reasons:

    It's a Violent group counting towards Up Against the Wall.
    It's a Powerful Government group that can power a Sniper or help the CFL-AIO
smash a Corporate group (or a Government group under the influence of the OMCLs,
nudge nudge wink wink... :)
    You get to hide that extra plot card under Texas. 

Let's Get Organized is for the Liquor Companies. Privatization is for the IRS
(if Discordia is in the game) or for Texas or China for an extra Corporate
group.

Play
Rather than leading with the Liquor Companies right off, start with Wall Street
as your lead puppet. This will foster the illusion that you're just playing a
generic Gnomes deck. Also, with Wall Street in play, having the Liquor Companies
as a puppet of Wall Street gives a +19 resistance against control (with
proximity, alignment matching, and Wall Street's +10). Power Grab and Seize the
Time when you can, in order to get at least two of Brazil, Hawaii, and/or China
as puppets of the Liquor Companies. Once the Liquor Companies are getting 3+
action tokens/turn, let the fun begin...Note that this structure will take a
little time to build, so play semi-defensively until you get it put together.

Once you get the Liquor Companies put together with its puppets, you will most
likely become Public Enemy #1. Try to put Monopoly and/or Commitment on the
Liquor Companies to strengthen their defense, and watch out for disasters aimed
at Brazil, Hawaii, and China. Early Warning, Hoax, 18 1/2 Minute Gap, and
Murphy's Law can help protect you here. The Nuke Power Companies can help
protect you against action-powered Plots aimed at the Liquor Companies and its
puppets.

The secondary tricks of this deck involve the OMCLs, the CFL-AIO, and the Up
Against The Wall goal card. Use the OMCLs to make Government groups Corporate
and destroy them with the CFL-AIO. Or, target other Gnomes players with the
CFL-AIO and use your strong Government groups to
help.