Blinded by Frankenfood

by Keith Page

Boy, this stuff looks nauseating. I bet if it were poisoned it could cause
blindness or even death in large numbers. Gosh!
Illuminati

    Bermuda Triangle 

Group Cards

    California
    Canada
    Center for Disease Control
    Dinosaur Park
    Drug Companies
    FBI
    France
    Germany
    International Weather Organizations
    Japan
    Newt Gingrich
    Nutrition Nazis
    Texas
    Big Prawn
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers 

Plot Cards

    Atomic Monster (x2)
    Attitude Mutation
    Back to the Salt Mines (x2)
    Cold Fusion (x3)
    Cover of Darkness
    Deasil Engine (x2)
    Frankenfood (x4)
    Hoax
    Hubble Trouble
    Near Miss (x2)
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Tape Runs Out...
    GOAL: Blinded by Science
    GOAL: Population Reduction
    NWO: Chicken in Every Pot (x2)
    NWO: Bigger Business
    NWO: Law and Order
    NWO: Political Correctness (x2) 

I've always thought that the biggest problem with Bermuda's goal was that if you
needed an alignment, you needed a specific card to get it, thus loading your
deck down with as many as 10 plots of dubious other quality. With Frankenfood,
you can pull out any groups you like, within reason, and still hammer a large
number of alignments into your puppets at the last minute. Because you need
places and Science groups to make this thing work, you can also toss in a few
other goals...
Lead

Japan. It's a big group that can slurp up your science groups like candy. It's
not the necessary lead in a multiplayer game, so if it bounces you're not in
much trouble, except for the fact that your enemy was planning on controlling
some of the groups that could give you trouble. Germany is the alternate lead.
General Strategy

Play it cool, and don't let the things that other people do bother you. If
someone brings out a place or a Science group that you have in your hand,
without question destroy that group with the help of your agent. Use your NWOs
to defend against World Hunger, Global Warming, Don't Forget to Smash the State,
End of the World, WW3 (sometimes), Gun Control (sometimes), and other nasty
effects that no one was counting on. Your goals are obvious to no one, so if you
have to, bribe poeple to stay away from your plot hand, and hide your actual
goal cards well in deck when you find them. Try to think up excuses for
destroying other peoples' Science groups, a good one happens to be the
overpowered goal associated with that attribute (Blinded by Science). Use
Bermuda's power every turn! Once everyone gets paranoid enough, pick a goal and
stick with it.

A note about hiding goals: A good rule of thumb is to stick your goal (24/the
number of groups you control) cards away in your deck. If you draw a goal on
your opening hand, hide it 12 cards down, but if you have 8 groups, you might
need it 3 draws away or less
Bermuda Special Goal

Blow up others' Science groups, or at the very least, make sure you pull your
victory bid when less than 6 Science power has actions. Control at least 3
Science groups and at least 2 places. Part of this depends on luck, you have to
draw 2 or 3 Frankenfood, and this deck has no good plot manipulation. Also,
don't go for Population Reduction first, and then switch to this one, you have
hurt yourself too much. At the cusp of victory, Hubble Trouble is handy for
cancelling a critical Science action that could go to destroying a Frankenfood.
You need several places because sometimes you need to add opposing alignments,
which doesn't work. Use your alignment builders for alignments that you don't
have, with few exceptions. If Shangri-La is in play, you may wish to Big Prawn
Japan Violent, and then either control the CDC or Frankenfood Dino Park Peaceful
(hey, pacifist disaster-happy dinos eating gengineered goodness) to keep your
Peaceful power low. Last but not least try to unleash your NWOs before you start
spreading Frankenfood around, people tend to get upset to the point of digging
for plot cancelers when their favorite Illuminated political movement goes
south. Grin when you win with Japan Weird Liberal Peaceful Government Fanatic.
Population Reduction

Only Japan is not huge. Since huge places are often popular, many of yours may
act as agents. Use with the CDC and BttSM and you are in business. With INWO and
Dino Park your Atomic Monsters (that escaped from their shipping crates) reach
Chthonic powers, so use them well. Don't expect to win if you Atomic Monster
Japan. If WW3 comes out, you could be really hurt, so use an Atomic Monster to
at least strip the action token off of a potential Nation. You can win by nuking
all of your own huge places, especially with Bermuda's special power, but it
will be slow and probably obvious. You can use the Orbital Mind Control Lasers
on your opponents Huge Places, kill those Huge Criminals with the FBI, and kill
those havens of Liberal thought (not to mention truth and beauty)(sorry) with
Newt Gingrich.
Blinded by Science

You normally want to nuke opposing scientists, but be on the lookout if a few
Science groups (that are not Computer, the Network can one-up for hostile
attacks to control) are looking ripe for the taking. This is, weirdly enough, an
outside win, you only have 7 Science groups, and someone else may have to pitch
in. Save the Nazis for the end, as that will draw much suspicion in the midgame.
This goal is also useful if someone sees it or suspects it enough to attack your
structure, as you can discard it to throw people off your tail.
Creepy Card Ideas

Germany
    A Conservative Huge Place that gives a bonus to control Scientists and is
easier to kill than Australia. 
Canada
    A very, very good agents card under the right circumstances. Bring it out
only if you can prove no Green decks are in the game. The same cautions go for
France. 
California
    Dies nicely. And those Power Rangers make a satisfying ::crunch:: noise when
your Atomic Monster steps on them. 
Drug Companies
    Key agents card, also a Corporate group than isn't disaster- bait (Hawaii),
isn't blasphemy-bait (Nuclear Power Companies), and has low resistance in
regards to a Japanese attempt at control (Phone Company) 
Dinosaur Park
    Give Dinosaur Park to Germany, then Germany can defend your entire power
structure with it's hopefully large pile of actions 
OMCLs
    Use to draw attention away from the Big Prawn, which you want to keep alive,
if only to keep that place from getting devastated 
Deasil Engine
    These are for defense against other peoples' engines. It's not so bad if the
Lasers bite the dust, but if the Big Prawn goes down, then someone's on to you. 
Attitude Mutation
    This plot can be used in defense very well, as it can cost nothing to use
and it can cause flibberty-gibbert in the enemy ranks when a key group of your
is no longer whatever alignment 

Problems with the Deck

It has no plot manipulation or hand defense. Some Savings and Loan Scams and
Double Crosses could go a long way to keeping your goals safe.
Variants and Substitutions

The cards I picked, I picked out of personal preference. I just thought that
Bermuda, Blinded by Science, and Population Reduction can work wonders together,
so feel free to play fast and loose with this deck if you like

That's about it, keep it safe, don't try to kill your opponent with your dice,
and have a great time at WorldCon!
Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: December 28, 1998
Last modified: Mon Aug 24 15:27:41 EDT 1998
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
