Blinded by Cake

by Keith Page
Illuminati

    UFOs 

Group Cards

    AMA
    Center For Disease Control
    FBI
    International Weather Organization
    Japan
    Newt Gingrich
    Nuclear Power Companies
    Orbit One
    Phone Company
    Phone Phreaks
    Vatican City
    Clipper Chip
    Library Of Alexandria
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers 

Plot Cards

    Citizenship Award
    Cold Fusion x2
    Deasil Engine
    Emergency Powers
    Infobahn x2
    Kinder And Gentler x2
    Liberal Agenda x2
    Martial Law x2
    Martyrs x2
    Nobel Peace Prize
    Rewriting History
    SMWNMTK x2
    Shangri-La
    Slush Fund x2
    The Weak Link
    Unmasked!
    GOAL: Blinded By Science
    GOAL: Kill For Peace
    GOAL: Let Them Eat Cake
    NWO: Bigger Business (Yellow)
    NWO: Chicken In Every Pot (Blue)
    NWO: Peace In Our Time (Red) 

This is a UFOs deck driven to winning any way it can:

Kill For Peace
    With two K&Gs, you can augment your supply of four Peacefuls, while with
Rewriting History is useful after the groups you kill are dead. You may even
want to Unmask as Shangri-La for protection 
Let Them Eat Cake
    That's what Newt is for. He's here to clean up all the unwashed Liberals
(including some of your own). Protect him if you plan to bash in the left wing.
Use the Liberal Agendas to nuke annoying Groups 
Blinded By Science
    With 9 Science Groups, all you need to do is the Goal. Orbit One helps in
that regard, but it may become a target after a few four-Plot hands 
Shangri-La
    It'll take luck, NWOs, and probably the Clipper Chip to do this one by
yourself. Use the K&Gs on a Bavaria or Cthulhu deck. 

Lead

Japan. Japan is the Canada of Scientists. Only it has 6 power normally. If
someone else leads Shangri-La, then lead Vatican City and try to bump, you've
got too many Peacefuls on the line. Or make a deal with him before the game not
to screw around with you if you 'promise' to lead Japan.
Opening Game

Soak up Science groups with Japan. Appear non-threatening with all your
'Peacefuls'. You may want to use your gaggle of +10 cards to nuke another
annoying group early on, but make sure you have help, so as to avoid the 'I'll
kill you all' stereotype.
Midgame

By this time you should have narrowed down your search for victory to a Goal
that you think you can't meet (Newt got assassinated or something)(serves him
right). Use your +10s to blow away some Violents or Liberals on one side, then
get all scared of the other guy, and try to nuke him too. Don't forget to use
the FBI(against Criminal), CDC(against Places), Newt Gingrich(against Liberals),
and the AMA(against Violent Scientists, whom you don't need to control). Note:
If you play the Nuclear Power Companies at this time, then you know you are
asking for it. Save your Cold Fusions for Defense at all times (they are the
most useful), and bring out the NPCs before you start a killing rampage. The
Orbital Mind Control Lasers are useful here, but not well protected. Keep your
NWOs in your hand to kill something annoying (like Interesting Times) or when
you have enoughh Peaceful Power to win with Shangri-La.
Endgame

Try to win. At this point your 'Peaceful' facade has probably been thrown off,
seeing as how you want to nuke groups for fun (the CDC can get a chance of 18 to
destroy China if three +10s are played). Try to use only one +10 during an
attack, though two if necessary. Using only one can force the other guy to play
his, and even if you don't succeed, you've drawn an enemy +10 into use, and you
have more than him. Really. Oh, and at this time you can nuke the Phone Phreaks
and INW(eather)O. People will know what you are doing, and besides, that's what
they're there for. Always look for a switcheroo win, like when killing Liberals
with Newt, everyone else blows up their own Liberals, or combines together to
squish key Conservatives. Just play all your NWOs, K&G a high-power group, like
the NPCs from Bigger Business, unmask as Shangri-La, and win that. With the UFOs
special ability, your plans can become different under almost any circumstance,
and your enemies will be confused to boot.

What follows is an explanation of the Group Deck for you editors you.

Japan
    The Key Lead. Slurps up Science Groups, your easiest path to victory. Do not
destroy. 
Vatican City
    A good Peaceful Conservative, your only other non-Science (after Japan) is
there to thwart Shangri-La 
AMA
    This is why I built this deck. Key. Good for Defense of very good Groups
(notably NPCs). K&Ging the FBI or Phone Company makes them eligible for the AMA.
Can also destroy Violent Scientists fairly easily. 
FBI
    High-Power Science Group used to kill Criminals. K&G them and Violent
Criminals get scared. 
Nuclear Power Companies
    Conservative Science Group. This will make you a hated object, so be subtle
and calm about. Make a point of trying to aid some attack to Destroy instead of
using the special. To you it's just a good Conservative Scientist, but don't be
too silly. Stopping 'Seize The Time' can still be very important. 
Newt Gingrich
    This man hunts Liberals, and is Science for some reason. I don't know why
Newt is interested in all this high-tech stuff, but he's gem. Key Group. 
Orbit One
    This is the only way to manipulate your Plot deck to find your Goals
quickly. Orbit One Can be replaced (Silicon Valley, maybe, or even Bank Of
England), but I like it there. It's not as vulnerable as Silicon Valley. 
Center For Disease Control
    How many of those Violent Government Groups are Places. Too many. It's time
to skim the field with a little biogenics. Just make sure you can't fail. CDC's
Government nature doesn't matter that much, but it would be nice to get rid of
for a time. 
Phone Company
    High-Powered Science Group. That's it. Replaceable. Corporate alignment a
sizeable problem, though if Military-Industrial Complex is used instead of
Bigger Business, the Phone Company could be used to a good effect. 
Phone Phreaks, International Weather Organization
    These are for Newt to eat. They are ridiculously easy to take over, and
almost as easy to kill. The Phone Phreaks may be useful for a turn while you
control Orbit One or the Phone Company, but feed them to Newt later. 

One thing that worries me is the small number of Assassins cards that I know
about. My cabal usually doesn't buy INWO that often, but who knows what's there?
There may be some killer three card combo in Assassins that turns the UFOs to
silly putty. Oh well.

The biggest thing about a UFO deck is its versatility. Exploit it to confuse
your foes, but do (don't? --RLM) make them think you will Unmask as Cthulhu.
That would be bad. And remember, when you're looking for a sneaky way to win
that doesn't use many common, high-power groups, or rares for that matter (six
or seven), look to Blinded By Cake.
Other Comments
Don Fnordlioni wrote about this deck:

    This deck, I think, is as solid a deck with 5 goals (3 goal cards,
Shangri-La, and Basic) can be. Definitely a good use of the UFOs' otherwise
crummy Special goal. However, beacause Newt "eats" (destroys) the Phone Phreaks
and the IWO, I'd rather see it called "Let Them Eat Science."

    The Unmasking as Shangri-La will be antipicated once the second Peaceful
group hits your power structure, and it's a two card combo, so I wouldn't count
on it. On the other hand, if there's another S-L player, unmask ASAP, because
with all the Peacefuls you've got coming, he'll win before you will. With both
of you working together, you'll be very hard to stop.

    There's a bit of a typo in the end -- I presume the author thinks it's bad
to be suspected of Unmasking as Cthulhu.

    As for the AMA blasting Violent Science groups... well, there are only four.
Two are Secret, and one (General Disorder) will come back. You really have no
method of making any more -- I'd lose one of the Liberal Agendas or Kinder &
Gentlers for an Assertiveness Training. If you end up turning into Shangri-La
early, this will give you targets to shoot at.

    I notice there's no Plots to protect your places, and you have four of them.
This is a major weakness, probably the biggest one. I'd dump at least two of the
to-6 power boosters (I'm not a fan of having a lot of to-6ers, as they suck up
action tokens), for things like Early Warning, Volunteer Aid, or This Was Only a
Test. Despite your Shangri-La and IWO bonuses, you ought to have at least two
Plots, imo. Also consider including the Red Cross somewhere in the groups. 

Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: July 13, 1997

Last modified: July 13, 1997
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
