Blunt Trauma

By Seth A. Cohen
Illuminati

    Servants of Cthulhu 

Group Cards

    Clone Arrangers
    Cycle Gangs
    Dinosaur Park
    International Weather Organization
    I.R.S.
    Lawyers
    Loan Sharks
    The Mafia
    New York
    Robot Sea Monsters
    Texas
    Clipper Chip
    Cyborg Soldiers
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers
    Weather Satellite 

Plot Cards

    Annual Convention
    Atomic Monster
    Back to the Salt Mines
    The Big Score
    Blitzkreig
    Bribery
    Combined Disasters
    Computer Virus
    Flesh-Eating Bacteria
    Giant Kudzu
    Hat Trick
    Hoax
    Martial Law
    Murphy's Law
    No Beer!
    Nuclear Accident
    Power Grab
    Savings and Loan Scam
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Seize the Time!
    Sorry, Wrong Number
    Swiss Bank Account
    Terrorist Nuke
    Tidal Wave
    Upheaval
    New World Order: Australian Rules
    New World Order: Gun Control
    Goal: Criminal Overlords
    Goal: Power for Its Own Sake 

Introduction

This is an extremely brute-force Cthulhu deck. It could pretty easily be a
brute-force Bavaria deck, done so by replacing a couple of cards, but this is
the way I did things. I build most of my decks without duplicates; thus I feel
obligated to use some of the Ultra-Rare cards I have (Don't try to follow the
logic, just listen). There's a lot that can be replaced in this deck, and I'll
detail that later in case you don't have the cards you need.

What you're going to try to do in this game is to fulfill one of four goals
(hence, flexibility): you could fulfill your Basic Goal by controlling (picking
a number out of the air) 12 Groups, including your Illuminati; you could win via
Cthulhu's special goal (each destroyed group counts as a group towards your
Basic Goal, or destroy 8 total groups); you could do Power for its own Sake,
which means controlling 50 Power, including your Illuminati; or, you could do
the Criminal Overlords goal, which can be combined with both the Basic Goal and
Cthulhu's Special Goal. This is probably the best, and your opponents will be
looking out for these Goals. Don't worry too much about it. You don't have to.
Beginning

All of the groups you have for this game are fairly regular cards, usually used
by Cthulhu or by other Illuminati. You could begin with any of them, but of
course you'd want to start with something powerful. I favor New York, and then
Texas, but of course the Clone Arrangers work well as well (especially because
you won't look like what you are immediately). It will be clear to all but the
newest player that you're playing a Brute Force Cthulhu--and you want to eat
them up. They'll (where possible) avoid putting Places down--they'll choose
defensive groups and power structures, and they'll do their damndest to stop
your plots. Don't jump on them immediately. Wait until you see something juicy
to take, and get it. Also, offer to help people attack each other (with
subtlety, if you can). The more you disrupt the flow of things, the easier it is
for you later. Make sure you get something in trade that you can use.

What you will be trying to do is to use the alignments your groups have in
common with each other to easily control them. You will find that some rival
Illuminati will be controlling groups you have in hand. This is okay--either
take them away from them in attacks, or destroy them. But remember--you only
have 11 groups you can control out of hand--if you destroy some of them, you'll
have to control or destroy groups belonging to your opponents to meet the basic
goal. Not that that's a bad thing. But many of your Group cards will be Agents,
or your opponents will have agents for cards in your Power Structure. Be warned,
but don't worry too much. You'll be fine.
Midgame

I'm going to take this opportunity to list the basic things you'll want to use
each Group Card for:

Clone Arrangers
    Aids in controlling Personalities. Very powerful, and Secret--thus difficult
for your opponents to destroy. 
Cycle Gangs
    Useful in aiding destroying both groups and Places. A cheap takeover. 
Dinosaur Park
    Useful in destroying Places, and can help you with controlling Science or
Corporate Groups. It's a low-power place, and thus easy to destroy. Don't let
your opponents do it for you. 
International Weather Organization
    Good for Disasters, and has lots of control arrows. Good for defending your
places, so don't blow it's action unless you need to. 
IRS
    You like other people's plots. You're powerful, and Criminal. You're also
hated, so be careful about being without an action. 
Lawyers
    The anti-IRS card. In case someone else has the IRS, you'll need them. Bad
if you have the IRS and someone already has the Lawyers, but that's why you have
these cards--Agents are your friends. Powerful and Criminal, and defends against
Gov't and Corporate. 
Loan Sharks
    Violent and Criminal, and increase with power as the game goes along if you
can get Criminal groups into your power structure. 
The Mafia
    Powerful, Violent, and Criminal; also aids in controlling or destroying
Criminals. 
New York
    The most Powerful non-Illuminati, has all three alignments you'll need to
win, and increases the power of all your other Criminal groups. 
Robot Sea Monsters
    A lot like Cycle Gangs and Dinosaur Park. But it's also Secret, and thus
harder to incapacitate. 
Texas
    Big, and allows you to hold a spare plot. Keep a +10 or a plot canceller
under Texas, unless you've gotten a anti-disaster card from someone with IRS.
It's powerful and has useful alignments, but is a big fat target to your
opponents. 
Clipper Chip
    +2 power to all Government groups 
Cyborg Soldiers
    Doubles the power of any one violent group. Not a Unique Gadget, so you
could use more than one of them if you wish. 
OMCL's
    Alters the alignment you need to either help control or destroy things
easily. 
Weather Satellite
    Big bonus to disasters and against them (if you need it), as well as
ordinary attacks to destroy. Has two actions per turn.

    Other cards you could replace some of these with (almost off the top of my
head): CIA, CFL-AIO, Democrats, Federal Reserve, FBI, Manuel Noriega (an easy
New York takeover), Multinational Oil Companies, NSA, Nuclear Power Companies,
or the Pentagon. Also, the Necronomicon, Midas Mill, Perpetual Motion Machine
and Rogue Boomer. You need a couple Science, Space, or Computer groups, so don't
forget them if you remove them from your deck. 

Classes of plots that are important:

Disasters and disaster-type cards
    Annual Convention, Atomic Monster, Combined Disasters, Flesh-Eating
Bacteria, Giant Kudzu, No Beer, Nuclear Accident, and Tidal Wave. You have lots
of cards to destroy places, and take one Organization (with Annual Convention)
out with it. Flesh-Eating Bacteria and No Beer are both Ultra-Rare cards, so you
might not have them--so either replace them with other disasters or remove them,
as you desire. FEB is reusable, though, so get it if you can. Giant Kudzu is the
most powerful Disaster, but it's not Instant--so it's best use is as the
secondary card to a Combined Disaster. There's nothing preventing you from
having multiples of the same disaster, but you can't use the same disaster twice
in a Combined Disaster. 
+10 Cards
    Big Score (attack or defense for Criminal groups), Martial Law (ditto for
Gov't), Terrorist Nuke (ditto for Violent) - all good cards, and you might want
to have doubles if you can fit them in. The Swiss Bank Account is +10 for an
Illuminati attack, and Back to the Salt Mines is +10 attack or defence to a
Place--and if your side is victorious, it returns to your hand! A good card. It
can also be used with Giant Kudzu, so there's a bonus there. 
Plot Control
    Plot card cancellers are Hoax and Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know. Both
are good cards. Hat Trick will allow you to claim a just-used plot, and S&L Scam
will allow you to get more plots into your hand. Don't forget that you're
Cthulhu, and each time you destroy a group you can draw a Plot card! 
Dice Alteration
    Bribery, Murphy's Law, and Computer Virus. Good cards, all, if expensive to
use. You need a specific action to use the Virus, so read it carefully.

    Blitzkrieg-for a reload of a captured group. Power Grab-save if possible for
when you're 10 groups away from the Basic Goal, and play appropriately. You'll
shoot right up to 12 groups. Otherwise, it can get you something you need and
allow you time to think (during your opponent's turn). Seize the Time is much
the same, but it limits you to not using Plots and not drawing Groups or Plots.
Plan before using, if possible. Sorry Wrong Number-a good offensive Zap,
removing defensive Bonuses from groups. Upheaval--when your opponents are
getting close to their goals. Don't forget, you don't have enough groups to win
without taking over or destroying someone else's groups, if playing to 12
groups. 
NWO's and Goals:
    I discussed the Goals before. The NWO's are Red, and you can't play them
both at the same time. Australian Rules should (if possible) be played when
you're about to make a feeding frenzy, because it feeds you plots and groups
when you successfully attack. Don't put it there if your opponents will benefit
more from it than you. Gun Control is good for many (if not most) of your
groups, and increases New York's power by quite a bit (+4!) 

Endgame

Well, you've controlled, you've destroyed, you've plotted and you've drank some
coffee. Hopefully, this deck has given you the flexibility to meet one of your
goals. Hopefully, you've not been Zapped too often with things that prevent you
from taking over the groups you need to win. Hopefully, there isn't another
Cthulhu or Bavaria in the game that is playing the same deck as you. You should
know at some point through the game where you are and what Goal you're headed
towards. Don't be afraid to hold a lot of plots during your turn--if you can put
a Goal where you need it in your deck, you're ready for a win. This deck doesn't
rely on subtlety, but hey--you do what you like. Good luck, and may an eldritch
crawling horror aid your victory.
Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: May 20, 1997

Last modified: May 20, 1997
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
