INWO Deck -- Bolsheviktory!
by Jason Staats and Carey Clevenger

Introduction
So, you Capitalist Yankee Swine thought you had seen the last of us, da? You are
thinking we were gone for good, da? Thought that that whole perestroika nonsense
worked? NYET! Nonsense is precisely what it was. And now you Imperialist
Boxer-Short Wearing Politicans think that Communism is on the decline. Just as
we had planned. Prepare to see how the "Domino Effect" really works. Ha! We blow
our noses in your Charmin.

The Deck
Illuminati

    Society of Assassins 

Groups

    China
    Clone Arrangers
    Fidel Castro
    Fiendish Flouridators
    International Communist Conspiracy
    Libertarians
    Russia
    Semiconcious Liberation Army
    Vladimir Zhirinovsky 

Resources

    Clipper Chip
    Crystal Skull
    Cyborg Soldiers
    Lenin's Body
    Perpetual Motion Machine
    Power Satellite 

Plots

    Citizenship Award
    Cover of Darkness
    Dictatorship (x2)
    Deasal Engine
    Exorcism
    Frankenfood (x2)
    Full Moon (x2)
    Giant Kudzu
    Hit and Run
    Hoax (x2)
    Nevermore!
    New Blood
    Pizza for the Secret Meeting (x2)
    GOAL: Power For Its Own Sake
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know (x2)
    The Weak Link
    NWO Blue: Interesting Times (x2)
    NWO Red: Gun Control (x2)
    NWO Yellow: End of the World (x2)
    NWO Blue: Watermelons 

Crushing the Yankee Dogs
The Revolution (Beginning)
Lead with Clone Arrangers. Your enemies may anticipate this move, but what is
the use? The International Communist Conspiracy makes a fitting substitute.
Never lead with China or Russia: they will fall into your hands very soon,
comrade. Your first priority is to obtain the body of Comrade Lenin, and give it
to Clone Arrangers, insuring genetically superior operatives. When Clone
Arrangers have also hired Cyborg Soldiers, they will now have 12 global power.
Perpetual Motion Machine allows them to act twice. Communist Conspiracy is best
choice for second group.

War Communism (Midgame)
Acquire groups quickly. This should be most easy. You may notice that Clone
Arrangers will have +12 to control Communist Personalities if you have Lenin's
Body and the ICC. Also recognize that the ICC acting alone has a 9 to take the
Fiendish Flouridators...just make sure to send them a pizza first. You thought
they were useless, didn't you, you Ignorant Silly Golf Pros? But do not attempt
to control Mother Russia or Sister China without a Power Satellite or Cyborg
Soldiers. (Ha! They thought Sputnik fell to Earth! Wait until they find out what
it REALLY does.) You should be remembering that Cyborg Soldiers can always be
moved once per turn, if they haven't already been used.

When Communist Scientists become bored, have them produce superior Frankenfood
Diet Supplement for Mother Russia, and make sure that the citizens are Fanatic
about reinstating Glorious Communist Rule. This will provide more global power.
And if Yankee Libertarians control the Motherland, they too may assist in the
revolution, with equal (or greater) power. But do not forget: Communism is
working best under Dictatorship, comrade.

World Domination (Endgame)
Now the world is falling at your feet like dominoes! You control many groups
with high global power, so you are opposing the attacks of other players, yes?
And Clipper Chip is adding some power as well. Your Crystal Skull helps you in
re-education efforts.

Collecting all Glorious Communist Revolutionaries will give you exactly 12
groups, comrade, just enough to rule the world. But before this happens, you
will probably have enough Power for its own Sake if you are a good student of
Comrade Marx. And if you are not allowed Appeasement Policy and are prevented
from taking groups, don't forget the Cold War.

A word of caution: Be wary of Green Communist Supporters, for they are only
Dissidents in disguise. Watermelons may assist in your efforts, but only if your
opponents aren't eco-conscious. Communism and Ecology work as well together as
Stalin and Trotsky: and the Lama Ramadingdong could be the icepick. Beware!

This deck was tested using standard two-player rules (no automatic takeovers) to
12 groups. For most of the game, the other player was too intimidated by the
Clone Arrangers 2 12 power tokens to try much of anything. Of course, automatic
takeovers will just make your domination faster. Don't forget that you can move
Lenin and the Cyborg Soldiers to give groups better chances to take groups at a
crucial time, and then moved on a later turn to scare opponents. Most plots are
self-explanatory if not already explained. Have fun, and remember: Comrade
Stalin will be watching. Dazvidania.

Back to the Deck of the Week.
