INWO Deck: Bureaucratic Reorganization

There's a standard class of Bermuda Triangle deck that wholly ignores the
Bermuda special goal and focuses on using one group with large bonuses to take a
certain class of groups to slurp up groups and reorganize to leave open those
control arrows. (See Aaron Curtis' comments on the Bermuda Triangle.) This is
such a deck with a Government theme.

This deck works very well in a game without automatic takeovers.

Note: You could do a better job with this deck, I'm sure. It's not perfectly
tuned.
The Deck
Illuminati

    Bermuda Triangle 

Groups

    Al Gore
    B.A.T.F.
    Bank of England
    Bill Clinton
    C.I.A.
    California
    E.P.A.
    Federal Reserve
    I.R.S.
    NASA
    New York
    Pentagon
    State Lotteries
    Texas
    Black Helicopters
    Clipper Chip 

Plots

    Back to the Salt Mines
    Censorship
    Commitment
    Giant Kudzu
    Good Polls x3
    Hoax
    Just Say No
    Let's Get Organized
    Martial Law x4
    Meteor Strike
    Murphy's Law
    Power Grab
    Read My Lips
    Savings and Loan Scam
    Supreme Court Nomination
    This Was Only a Test
    The Weak Link
    Goal: Power For Its Own Sake
    NWO: Fear and Loathing
    NWO: Gun Control
    NWO: Law and Order
    NWO: Military-Industrial Complex
    NWO: The Magic Goes Away 

Beginning

Lead with Bill Clinton, who has a big roll to take over all your other groups.
If that bounces, lead with one of your powerful Government groups, and hope to
take Bill as soon as you can. The Pentagon might be a good choice because it has
two common alignments with Bill.
Midgame

Through the midgame, you should have the following goals for each turn:

    Take over a group with Bill Clinton. (And rearrange at the end of your turn
so that Bill has control arrows free.)
    Ensure the security of Bill.
    Enhance your ability to do 1) and 2), and slow down your opponents. 

These will each be discussed in more detail in turn.
Take over a Group with Bill Clinton

Bill is a Government-grabbing powerhouse. When Bill Clinton attacks to control a
Government group, he gets +4 for common alignments, plus another 8 for his
special ability, for a total of +12. If the target is part of the United States
as well, Bill gets another +3, for a total of +15. This high bonus lets Bill
have a 10 or less to control almost all the Groups in your deck.

On each turn, then, you want to take over a group with Bill Clinton, and then
use your Bermuda special ability to rearrange at the end of your turn so that
that Bill's control arrows are free, so that you can repeat the trick on the
next turn. You should make sure that Bill has at least one and preferably two
control arrows free when you rearrange your groups.

Once you have several groups in your Power Structure, you can use other groups
to make takeovers of their own, to grow even faster. However, it is more
important to protect Bill than to make extra attacks and leave yourself
vulnerable. Don't scare the other players too much; they'll gang up and pummel
you.
Ensure the security of Bill Clinton

The primary defense for Bill Clinton will be the many other Government Groups in
your power structure that can defend him. My rule of thumb is to leave action
tokens on about half of your groups for defense.

Many of the Plots in the deck are included specifically for Bill's sake. The
Read My Lips will protect Bill completely from one attack. The Commitment is
intended for him, since he has an unfortunately low Resistance. The Martial Laws
and the Just Say No can often be saved for defense instead of being used on
offense. And a Good Polls on Government Groups will allow you to mount a lot of
defense as all of your Government Groups can defend each other.

You may wish to include a defense against Assasination, such as Talisman of
Ahrimanes or Bodyguard.
Enhance your ability to do 1) and 2), and slow down your opponents

NASA is a fine way to let Bill control two groups per turn, by giving him an
extra action token after he's used the first. NASA is useful enough that it is
well worth taking with an ATO.

If you have an extra action token for Bill, a let's Get Organized can be very
useful, since it would give Bill an outgoing control arrow at the end of the
card.

The Clipper Chip is almost a must for any Government-oriented deck. Take it over
when you have three Government Groups or so, and don't worry about keeping
it--it can't be destroyed, except by a Suicide Squad, and if you ever have no
Government Groups, you will already be dead.

With Black Helicopters, all of Bill's attacks to control will be Privileged,
which should make your attacks from hand even easier. (Isn't it heartwarming to
know that our President has such a personal role in the takeover of our
government by the United Nations New World Order?)

Having Bill win a Sweepstakes Prize is, honestly, overkill. On the other hand,
it's free overkill, and it increases the power of is attacks to control.

The NWO: The Magic Goes Away is there to slow down your opponents. It won't slow
down you much at all, as long as you have Bill.

You can easily play a Supreme Court Nomination on someone else's personality. If
they're destroyed, fine--if not, then they're ripe for a takeover by Bill.
Endgame

There are two ways to win with this deck, almost equally easy: the Basic Goal
and Power for Its Own Sake. The Bermuda Special Goal is not a viable option;
don't even consider it, unless some sort of miracle occurs.

With either Goal, you'll want to make a putsch to victory at the end. Here are
some ways to go about it:

    Use Censorship to prey on other people's Media groups at a crucial moment.
    B.A.T.F. and State Lotteries can good to save in your hand for an easy
takeover at the end of the game.
    If one of the Groups in your hand has been taken over by someone else, bide
your time... and then use your agents card, a Martial Law, and a lot of Power to
steal it and its puppets from him.
    You can make several attacks from hand at the end of the game--the hard part
can be having enough Group cards to do so. You may wish to spend an Illuminati
action to draw a Group when you don't need that action to take a Resource or to
defend. 

Potential Problems

The Discordian Society can be annoying to a deck like this, because Discordia is
damn near immune to everything in this deck. There's only one solution: outgrow
them. Outgrow the hell out of them. Fortunately, typical Weird Discordia decks
are a bit slow, and this deck is very fast, so that should not be a problem.

Two-player play is not a problem for this deck, nor is NWO: the Magic Goes away,
since this deck is very good at making takeovers.
Variants and Substitutions

You might consider adding a New Federal Budget, but I would recommend against
it. New Federal Budget is actually pretty useless, since even the least of your
groups will have at least power 2 with the Clipper Chip.

One amusing variation on this theme is to make a Government-oriented deck with
Government, Straight, Violent, Peaceful, Corporate (Tobacco Companies are good
for such a deck), and Liberal alignments, and then bring out Lyndon LaRouche and
a set of Dittoheads to achieve the Bermuda special goal. I've only tried this
once, and it didn't actually work--but it was a noble effort, and came very
close. If you do this, you should realize that you can move a Government group
to be controlled by Lyndon Larouche for a sudden power boost.

Since this deck is such a fast deck, you can sacrifice some of your speed to
slow everyone else down. NWO: Solidarity and NWO: The Magic Goes Away are good
ways to do this.

Another variation would be to make Bill Clinton's bonus to control even more
extreme, with some of the free Personality-boosters. Sweepstakes Prize would
give an extra bonus to Bill's attacks to control; Messiah would improve Bill's
Power and Resistance (and the Resistance boost in particular would be handy),
but runs the risk that the card becomes useless if someone else becomes the
Messiah.

The common alignment of Government provides a lot of defensive power for Bill
against normal attacks. However, this does not apply well to Assassinations. (If
you see someone else take over the Secret Service, do your damndest to control
or destroy them as soon as you can.) I don't see many Assassinations in my
games; if you think you're likely to encounter Assassinations, it would be a
good thing to include a Bodyguard or Talisman of Ahrimanes.
Theme Song

In conclusion, let me leave you with this thought:

Most decks do not have theme songs. (All things considered, this is probably a
good thing.) But this deck does have a theme song, from Schoolhouse Rock:

    I'm just a Bill,
    Yes, I'm only a Bill,
    And I'm sitting here on Capitol Hill... 

Back to the Classic Decks.

First posted: July 8, 1996

Last modified: September 4, 1997
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
