DotW Runner-Up: Business as Unusual

by Darrin Bright
Illuminati

    UFOs 

Group Cards

    Cable TV
    Cycle Gangs
    Hawaii
    International Cocaine Smugglers
    Junk Mail
    Madison Avenue
    Rosicrucians
    Science Fiction Fans
    Semiconscious Liberation Army
    Wall Street
    Wargamers
    WITCH
    Midas Mill
    Principia Discordia 

Plot Cards

    Agent In Place
    Albino Alligators
    Are We Having Fun Yet?
    Atomic Monster
    Bimbo At Eleven
    Car Bomb
    Crop Circles (x2)
    Double-Cross
    Eat The Rich
    Harmonica Virgins
    Interference
    Mob Influence
    Privatization
    Pulitzer Prize
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know
    Self Esteem
    Stealing The Plans
    Terrorist Nuke
    Tornado
    Upheaval!
    Whispering Campaign
    The Weird Turn Pro
    Voodoo Economics
    GOAL: The Corporate Masters
    GOAL: Hail Eris! (x2)
    NWO/Blue: Chicken in Every Pot
    NWO/Yellow: Don't Forget To Smash The State
    NWO/Red: Solidarity 

Putting Everything Together

The first thing I tend to look at are the rare groups. Your rivals are not as
likely to have these groups and they can be important building blocks for the
rest of your power structure. In this case, I didn't see much I could do with
either the Int'l Communist Conspiracy or the Libertarians. There were three
other Communist groups - Russia, Clone Arrangers, and the Semiconscious
Liberation Army, but not enough to build a strong deck with. Besides, a lot of
the cards for building a strong communist deck are in the Assassins expansion
(Vladimir Zhirinovsky, Lenin's Body, and Watermelons, etc.) As for the
Libertarians, the New York combo came to mind but there are no power doublers
and New York is almost always immediately the target of a disaster or agents
card, and while it's hanging out on one of the Libertarian's control arrows,
it's an easy target. There were no other cards that would work well with the
Libertarians, so I'd say use these two rares to trade for something you really
want or use.

As someone pointed out earlier, there's enough Corporate cards for a Corporate
Masters or Gnomes deck, but I ruled out using the Gnomes without the Federal
Reserve, Savings and Loans, or the other Gnomes power cards. There weren't
enough magic groups or resources for an effective Adepts deck, so the two
choices as far as Illuminati were the UFOs or Cthulhu.

There were plenty of bonuses to attack groups, so there might be enough here for
a Cthulhu deck. There's the Cycle Gangs, Urban Gangs, Semiconscious Lib. Army,
and groups like the Voudonistas and Joggers for Assassinations, so there's a lot
here that could be the basis for a bonus-to-destroy deck, but I decided that
there weren't enough good disasters/assassinations, and there weren't enough big
groups to lend support to the smaller violent groups. A bunch of power 1 violent
groups are easy pickings for a trigger-happy Shangri-La player.

That left the UFOs. There's only two goal cards to work with, but this keeps
things simple. The Corporate Masters seems easy enough, but unfortunately there
aren't any good power-boosters for Corporate groups. Wall Street is the only
group that satisfies the Corporate Masters goal without any power-boosters or
alignment changers. Luckily there was a Privatization, so if any of your other
groups were up to power 4 or more, then they could be privatized. Mob Influence
could also be played on Junk Mail to increase its power to 6. So the Corporate
Masters goal seemed pretty workable.

I wasn't sure Hail Eris would work when the only powerful Weird group was Witch,
but when I looked through the plots again, there was a Weird Turn Pro. That
would get another Weird group to count double. For a third Weird group, Mob
Influence could be used on the Semiconscious Lib. Army. So Hail Eris looked like
it would work as well.
Beginning

There are four groups that should form the basis of your power structure:
Madison Avenue, Int'l Cocaine Smugglers, Wall Street, and WITCH. Madison Avenue
is your best lead group, and is good for slurping up your Corporate Media
groups. Int'l Cocaine Smugglers have a +8 to take either the Cycle Gangs or the
Semiconscious Liberation Army. Wall Street can be a good lead if Madison Avenue
bounces, and the +10 resistance can be used to help protect any groups you're
afraid of losing to any rivals. WITCH is a good place to attack to control Weird
groups and you can use its action token to power any Crop Circles.

Try not to focus too heavily on one particular alignment. If you bring out
nothing but Corporate groups your first few turns, your opponents will decide
you're going for Corporate Masters and go after your Corporate groups. If you
bring out nothing but Weird groups, they'll think you're after Hail Eris and do
the same. Keep your opponents guessing about which goal you're leaning towards,
if they're indecisive about stopping you then you'll have more time to set up a
victory.
Midgame

The most important thing you need to do at this point is find Mob Influence,
either via Crop Circles or the Rosicrucians. Don't play it until you decide
which goal you're going for, but either way, you're probably going to need it
for either goal.

At this point, your opponents will be suspiscious of either Hail Eris or the
Corporate Masters. If either of these goals is exposed and your opponents mount
a concerted effort to thwart it, consider exposing the other one. Then you can
feint back and forth between the two goals and try to confuse them. Be wary of
any rival Discordia or Gnomes players! If both Discordia and Gnomes are in the
game, then play them off one another. Offer to help either one against the
other. Tell Discordia you'll help defend his Weird groups if he'll help you
attack the Gnomes' Corporate groups, and vice versa.

Another thing to consider during the midgame is taking the offensive. Your
opponents won't have as much power/tokens to interfere with you if they're
trying to defend against attacks to destroy. With the Cycle Gangs out, your
disasters have a +4 bonus, and you can use your Media groups for Bimbo At
Eleven, Eat The Rich, and Whispering Campaign. Upheaval could also be used to
thin out the ranks. Although this hurts you as much as your rivals, you have the
advantage of knowing when it'll be played and can decide beforehand which group
you can afford to lose.
Endgame

When you've decided which goal to win with, bring out Mob Influence. If it's
Hail Eris, play it on the Semiconscious Liberation Army. If its Corporate
Masters, play it on Junk Mail. Another possibility if Junk Mail isn't available
would be playing it on the Semiconscious Liberation Army and Privatizing them.
If you're still short Corporate groups, boost one of your Weird groups to power
4 with the Weird Turn Pro, then Privatize.
Where To Go From Here

As someone already pointed out, there are the makings of a great Criminal
Overlords deck here. Begging, borrowing, or stealing a Criminal Overlords might
really help this deck, and would make an excellent third goal for the UFO's
special ability. If you can get ahold of a Criminal Overlords card, then I'd put
in New York and the Clone Arrangers. However, these two cards are extremely
popular and very easy to sandbag. I think you'd have more success with some of
the less popular violent criminal groups, like Manuel Noriega or the Loan
Sharks.

There's two rare cards I didn't use, Int'l Comm. Consp. and the Libertarians.
These are excellent trade material, I'd try and trade them for some Cyborg
Soldiers or a PMM, although some more powerful weird groups like Cattle
Mutilators or MIBs would be good as well.
Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: November 17, 1997

Last modified: November 18, 1997
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
