Circle of "Obo"
by Martin Laerkes

Card Data
Illuminati:

    Bavarian Illuminati

Groups:

    Bill Clinton
    Connie Dobbs
    Genschman
    Gordo Remora
    Lyndon LaRouche
    NHGH
    Overman Philo Drummond
    Rev. Ivan Stang
    Secret FisTemples
    Showmaster

Resources:

    Janor Device
    Martyr Meter
    Sacret Stencil

Plots:

    13013
    Atomic Monster
    Blood, Toil, Tears and Sweat x2
    Censorship
    Decency is OK
    Devival
    Eternal Salvation or Triple Your Money Back
    Goal: The Anti-"Bob"
    Grassroots Support
    Hidden Influence
    Jake Day
    Just Say No
    Media Connections
    Messiah
    Murphy's Law x2
    NWO: Interesting Times
    NWO: Law and Order
    Official Divine All-Inclusive Excuse x2
    Overman
    Pulitzer Prize
    Rant!
    Rewriting History
    Savings and Loans Scam
    Scandal
    Self-Esteem
    Secrets Man was Not Meant to Know
    Shordurpersav
    Supreme Court Nomination

Strategy
The Plan

    This is the third deck in the series featuring the goals from the SubGenius
expansion, and this one focuses on one of the weakest goals in the game: The
Anti-"Bob" (A"B"). The A"B" goal resembles the control/destroy goals, but
without that crucial option of controlling less by destroying more, or the
equally vital ability to destroy your own groups. Also, the required alignments
and attributes are a poor match indeed. There aren't many SubGenius groups, few
have high power, and most of them are weird, which doesn't mix too well with
destroying other weird groups. Finally, by the time that you've accumulated 6
SubGenius groups, Hail Eris and Brag of the SubGenius would probably both have
put you at 10 groups already.

    But there are also good news though. Exposing your goal gives you a free
illuminati token, and once revealed the goal can not be lost - just like an
illuminati goal. Furthermore, quite a few decks using no goal cards use the A"B"
for the free token, so exposing it in a deck with just 2 SubGenius groups in
play shouldn't alarm your rivals.

    In order to have any chance of winning, this deck relies on deception. It is
a personality heavy deck, which can use Showmaster to achieve Bavarias
illuminated goal. However, it does pack the necessary cards to destroy the
required rival groups, in which case you rely on Secret FisTemples (and Overman
Philo Drummond) to turn your entire power structure SubGenius.

Opening Game

    Bill, Connie, Genschman or the Reverend are your best leads, but by all
means go with whatever fits your starting plot hand, as long as you remember to
keep Secret FisTemples and Overman Philo Drummond in reserve. Getting the Sacred
Stencil into play is a top priority, especially if you're facing Cthulhu.

    Expose your goal card at the first opportune moment. This will give you an
extra illuminati token, while at the same time allowing you to have NHGH in
play. 

Midgame

    A lot depends on what your rivals bring to the table, but it is probably a
good idea to play towards your Bavaria goal, while keeping an eye peeled for
juicy weird groups to destroy. The good thing about the Bavarian goal is that
even if you don't actually complete it, lots of power is always good.

    In reaching 50 power a few cards are essential: The power boosting plots
naturally, but also the Showmaster, and Janor Device and Martyr Meter to
increase his efficiency. Note that the Martyr Meter does not need to be linked,
so can be used on Showmaster on the turn on which he is ATO'd. Lyndon LaRouche
can also add a little power by copying the printed power of Bill Clinton, and
can also enjoy the benefits of the Meter and the Janor Device.

    The Showmaster can spend his tokens for a 4+ roll (3+ with the Janor Device)
to double the printed power of a personality, making any of your power 3+
personalities great targets for an appearance on his show. If you can double the
power of Bill Clinton, then Lyndon also gets power 8, because he copies Bill's
printed power.

    If you fail the roll, then the target personality's printed power is reduced
to 1 - so use a power-to-6 card to clean up your mess, and remember that
Shordurpersav and Murphys Law will make a talk show appearance an almost instant
success. Finally, note that while Supreme Court Nomination can provide a nasty
surprise if timed correctly, it can also be used on one of your own
personalities to make it Government and change its printed power to 4. This, of
course, can be doubled to 8, giving Lyndon a back-up puppet if Bill should meet
with an untimely end.

End Game

    If everything goes according to plan, then you should be within reach of
your 50 power objective. However, if you take a beating, host some awful
talkshows, or the opportunity presents itself, you can try for The Anti-"Bob"
goal instead. You'll need to have 2 SubGenius personalities in play, and at
least 3 other personalities. You also need to destroy 2 rival groups, preferably
weird (or SubGenius) ones. Rewriting History can provide you with a weird group
post mortem, and Jake Day can create a weird target, though this may give you
away. An attack from Gordo Remora could make the Jake Day look less suspicious.

    You have a few plots that require some media power, so use Showmaster, your
power boosters, or a Media Connections (with a +10) to create some. Media
Connections can also be used to create a target for a Censorship attack.
Remember that Showmaster is media - errata has been issued. If a good target
becomes available early on, you could use NHGH as a plot card for an extra +5 to
destroy, just don't do it if you have revealed your goal card. Even if cancelled
the NHGH will go to the hand of your rival (this has been netrep verified), and
since your rival can not take control of NHGH unless he is also using The
Anti-"Bob" goal, you'll probably get your NHGH card back sooner or later. But
take care: A famous NHGH with a power of 10 is a big part of your play for
Bavaria's goal.

    Once you've acquired your kills, by trickery or brute force, ATO the Secret
FisTemples, and move 3 non-SubGenius personalities to its control arrows. This
will supply you with 4 extra SubGenius groups, hopefully enough to fulfil The
Anti-"Bob" goal. 

Potential Problems

    This deck is not exactly powerful. While many things can go wrong, there are
few things specific enough to mention here. If someone else uses the Secret
FisTemples then you can't complete The Anti-"Bob" goal, and if you lose a few
high power groups, or the Showmaster early on, then Bavaria's goal will be out
of reach. That's why you have 2 unrelated goals: If one becomes impossible to
achieve, then go for the other one and hope for the best. 

Variants and Substitutions

    You obviously need a SubGenius set to create a deck like this, but other
than that, only Showmaster is vital to the deck. If you don't have him, then you
should change the group composition, and perhaps make room for some power
doubling resources. Alternatively, a deck with straight personalities and the
right NWOs can also accumulate a lot of power, and work well together both when
defending, and when attacking weird groups.

    As for variants, almost any deck using The Anti-"Bob" would be better served
with Brag of the SubGenius. One particularly silly version uses a weird Moonbase
as a puppet of Overman Philo Drummond, with Philo linked back to it. Move Philo
(and the Moonbase) to a rival power structure with Sudden European Vacation, and
then blow up the Moonbase for 2 SubGenius kills in a rivals power structure. But
again, if you had 2 groups to give away, then a conventional win would probably
have been the better option, as would a Jake Day or two.

Back to Deck of the Week
