Counterculture McGoverniks

by Steve Brinich

Concept: Radical weirdos out to destroy the Amurrikin Way Of Life....
Illuminati

    Discordian Society 

Group Cards

    Big Media
    Black Activists
    California
    Feminists
    France
    Gay Activists
    Intellectuals
    Italy
    Secular Humanists
    Shock Jocks
    Swingers
    Triliberal Commission
    Bill Clinton
    Teddy Kennedy
    Center for Weird Studies
    Shroud of Turin 

Plot Cards

    Albino Alligators
    Beach Party
    Benefit Concert
    Crackdown on Crime
    Emergency Powers
    Every Year Is Worse
    Exorcism
    Fnord!
    Freaking the Mundanes
    Good Polls
    Jake Day
    Martial Law
    Mothers' March
    Murphy's Law
    Nationalization
    Near Miss
    The Second Bullet
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Self-Esteem
    Sniper
    Talisman of Ahrimanes
    The Weird Turn Pro
    Goal: Power to the People (x2)
    NWO: Chicken in Every Pot
    NWO: Military-Industrial Complex
    NWO: Political Correctness (x2) 

Opening

Your two strongest leads are Bill Clinton (for his bonus to take over your
Government groups) or the Feminists (for their bonus to control Liberals and
destroy Conservatives). The Feminists lead is generally stronger, but telegraphs
your intentions.
Midgame
Groups

This deck has several good keystones for your Power Structure (Bill Clinton,
California, Teddy Kennedy, and Triliberal Commission).

You have several defensive abilities to augment Discordia's immunities. All your
groups can be defended as a free action by either France or Italy. Teddy Kennedy
provides great protection for his Liberal puppets, and the Black Activists and
Secular Humanists blunt attacks from Liberals or Conservatives, respectively.

Once you have the skeleton of your Power Structure laid out, it's a fairly
straightforward case of slurping up Liberal and Weird groups, and deciding which
way you want to win (depending on the availability of Conservative targets).
Ideally, you want to feint toward one goal, then make a surprise strike to the
other.
Resources

The Center for Weird Studies will reload a group at the price of discarding your
top Plot card. This is particularly useful for groups with key special abilities
such as the Gay Activists -- see below under "Endgame".

The Shroud of Turin gives you some control over draws, and works very well with
abilities powered by deck discards (Center for Weird Studies, Fnord!). If you
see a card at the top of the deck that isn't very useful, draw from the bottom
instead and use the top card as fuel.
Plots

You have several good defensive Plots. Besides the straightforward ones (Beach
Party, Good Polls, Murphy's Law, Near Miss, Talisman of Ahrimanes), you have the
Military-Industrial Complex NWO to extend your anti-Government immunity to
Corporate groups. If a rival group looks like a particular threat, Nationalize
it (note that the Deprogrammers have an exemption to your anti-Straight
immunity, but not to your anti-Government immunity....)

Use your +10 cards for attack or defense, as the situation indicates.

Every Year Is Worse will help you soften up a Conservative target (note that
sometimes it's best used on a group that could defend your intended target
rather than the intended target itself).

Many of the powerful groups that you _aren't_ immune to are Criminal; your
Government groups can launch a Crackdown on Crime.

Try to save NWO: Political Correctness for key opportunities to destroy a
Conservative group or grab an arm of a rival Power Structure. Reserve NWO:
Chicken In Every Pot in case you need to get rid of NWO: World Hunger or NWO:
Global Warming).
Endgame

This deck can work toward either of two goals: the Discordian goal or the Power
to the People goal.

If you can destroy at least two Conservative targets, Power to the People will
probably be easier. Get control of six (or five with the Triliberals) Liberal
groups (but don't count on Clinton if you can help it), pump up your Power
Structure with Political Correctness, have The Second Bullet ready, and take out
a couple of right-wing reactionaries. If there are several good targets, change
the control/destroy mix accordingly, but be careful not to overextend yourself.

If you don't have good Conservative targets, or Power to the People stubbornly
refuses to show up in your hand, go for the Discordian win. California counts
double; so will the Swingers with the help of their Liberal friends. The Gay
Activists can Weird out Big Media, Bill Clinton, or the Triliberals (or any two
of them with an action token reload). Jake Day can make a powerful group Weird;
The Weird Turn Pro can boost any weak Weird group. It should be fairly easy to
reach the limit of three doubled groups.
Pitfalls

If you're faced with a rival Discordian, he'll be immune to your most powerful
groups. On the other hand, if he's playing a typical Weird Discordian deck, you
might be able to make a deal (he plays his Weird groups, you play your Liberal
groups). If not, hold California in reserve and sandbag him (the Swingers will
probably be your most powerful eligible group; if you're going for the win, use
Jake Day and the Gay Activists to make other powerful groups Weird just before
you strike).

If you see a rival building a Power Structure that isn't going to be hampered by
your immunities and defensive bonuses, maximize your defenses (get out France
and Italy ASAP and boost their Power, hold as many defensive Plots as you can)
and work on building alliances against him.
Variants and Substitutions

Other groups that should work well in this deck and fit the theme are Democrats,
Hillary Clinton, Psychiatrists (which can help you pick off Conservative
Personalities), and Underground Newspapers.

If you expect to be up against another Discordian, consider an Orgone Grinder
for Bill Clinton. This strips away his alignments (allowing him to attack
Discordia), gives him 6 Power, and still keeps his +11 bonuses -- add your
California card as an agent, the Discordian ability to control Weirds, and the
bonus for rival Illuminati, and your California sandbag will start out with an
effective power of 36.

Another option would be to include an Alien Abduction to strip away Bill
Clinton's inconvenient alignments. This would yield an effective power of 34,
since Bill gets no power-boost. This has the advantage that if you don't need to
attack a rival Discordia, the Alien Abduction can be used to take over one of
your Personalities.

This deck includes three Rares (Italy, Swingers, Shroud of Turin). None of them
are really critical. If you don't have Italy, add some extra defense to
compensate. If you don't have the Swingers, add a high-Power Liberal group
(Democrats, CFL-AIO), and consider replacing Freaking the Mundanes with an extra
Jake Day. If you don't have the the Shroud of Turin, consider including a few
Magic groups (W.I.T.C.H., Reformed Church of Satan) and Crop Circles and
omitting Fnord!
Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: March 24, 1996

Last modified: March 25, 1996
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
