INWO Deck: Criminal Interest
By Ashley Perryman

OK, what links the following banks: IRS, Offshore Banks, Bank of England,
Federal Reserve and Savings and Loans? Yes, Criminal Government groups. Violent
groups which are also Criminal or Government are just as good since they have
loads of power. The Gnomes of Zurich and big powerful groups go together well.

This deck revolves around the above idea, it contains no Corporate cards at all,
and apart from its obvious power is designed as an isolationist plot burner and
parasite, yet also a deck that can be seriously nasty to both Bavaria and the
Servants of Cthulhu. Bavaria is vulnerable to Government power equal to their
own, and the Servants of Cthulhu are ideal victims for a couple of spectacular
sandbags, so despite the isolationist concept this deck is capable of being
immensely destructive (with the right plot cards) and striking fear into all
opponents.

The real strength of this deck is it's versatility. It can go with the wind,
make use of various opportunities, and of course, being Zurich is never going to
be short on power. The weakness is in linking Criminal and Government groups.
The IRS and New York are essential, if lost it is very hard to maintain a
supportive structure, Manuel Noriega will help but is very vulnerable. You might
want to carry the Plots Nationalization and/or Assertiveness Training as added
security or carry a duplicate of one or both of these groups.. The only other
significant threats are a more effective plot parasite, AKA The Network and
another Zurich - both are discussed in more detail later.

The Deck
Illuminati

    Gnomes of Zurich 

Groups

    IRS
    Offshore Banks
    Savings and Loans
    Manuel Noriega
    The Mafia
    Loan Sharks
    Federal Reserve
    Bank of England
    Lawyers
    New York
    BATF
    International Cocaine Smugglers
    Saddam Hussein
    MI5 

Resources

    Clipper Chip
    Soulburner 

Plots

    The Auditor From Hell x4
    Savings and Loans Scam x2
    Currency Speculation x3
    An Offer you can't Refuse x2
    Blitzkrieg x2
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know x2
    Hoax
    Martial Law x2
    The Big Score x2
    Terrorist Nuke x2
    (NWO) Gun Control
    (NWO) Chicken in Every Pot
    (Goal) Criminal Overlords x2
    Privileged Attack x2 

Strategy
The Beginning
Lead with the IRS, (that should set the scene rather well). Take a good look at
what other Illuminati are around. If both Bavaria and the Servants of Cthulhu
are present make a deal with one of them to wipe out the other. If only one of
the two above Illuminati are present laugh, but not too loudly, not yet....

Consider what other Illuminati are around, what Plot and Groups Cards are in
your hand, and decide on a strategy. If possible then stick to it, but remember,
if all else fails a change of plan is possible.

First get a powerful group down fast, New York is the perfect move if possible,
or if not, the Federal Reserve, or any Criminal group with a reasonable amount
of power. But be careful about putting the Mafia down if the Servants of Cthulhu
are present. Let them play it first, it can be taken later.

Use the IRS to tax anyone who looks like they are playing with a lot of violent
or government groups, you can always make use of their plots.

Offer to help any of the weaker Illuminati, the UFO's, Discordia and Bermuda for
example. They make good allies at this stage and are unlikely to ever be in a
position to do you damage. If they are on your side it will stop any real
nastiness from more dangerous Illuminati.

Try and get a small compact structure of groups that can support and protect
each other easily, and build up the number of plot cards in your hand as quickly
as possible.

The Midgame
If possible sit tight, take groups from your own hand when it is safe to do so.
Use the special power of the offshore banks to keep your structure secure. Most
players will by now have started to recognise the deck is a plot parasite. That
and the power on the table should be enough to dissuade (by threat or force)
most potential attacks. If attacked burn plot cards, you can get plenty more
easily enough, yours or from anyone else.

As to your other intentions, keep them all guessing. Attack other Illuminati
only if forced to do so, pick on the big guys if you can - You have enough clout
to do serious damage. Hit Bavaria if possible, don't destroy groups, instead
take the odd government group off them, or if you don't want the group then help
someone else to do it. Saddam Hussein and Savings and Loans really come in
useful for hurting Bavaria and there's nothing funnier that seeing them reduced
to grovelling for aid.

At this stage, if possible, leave The Servants of Cthulhu well alone. They can
be got later. It is better to deal with The Enemy and other more immediate
dangers.

The Enemy
The Network
The Network is even better at being a plot burner and parasite. Destroy the
Network if at all possible, this should probably take priority over anything
else since a Network plot parasite is a real danger. With this in mind it might
(especially if you know a someone is going to play the Network) be a good idea
to put a couple of Criminal or Government Computer groups in your deck. The
Phone Freaks or NSA spring to mind as good possibilities for sandbags. Tax them
at every opportunity, play An offer You Can't Refuse. Get the Network's plot
cards and if you've no use for all those Infobahns, Computer Security's,
Internet Worms, or Cold fusions just throw them in your discard pile and laugh.
And you might get lucky, another Auditor From Hell would really spoil their day.
Once they are short on plots, destroy, destroy, destroy.

Another Zurich
This deck has one significant advantage over rival Gnomes, Criminal groups. The
Gnomes of Zurich rival will find it hard to attack these with any great power.
However, all their Corporate groups are ideal victims for lots of government
power. Add to this the special ability of Saddam Hussein and Savings and Loans
to remove a couple of action tokens from their government groups and the rival
is open to plunder or destruction. If short on Government power try making
Manuel Noriega a puppet of the Mafia or any other powerful non Government group.
Don't forget to use the special ability of the Offshore Banks to move Manuel
where you need him. Watch any rival Gnomes of Zurich closely, if powerful they
are a big danger. Stunts like the Wall Street Travel Agency should be opposed
strongly and the Nuclear Power Companies can really hurt. A good move, if
possible, is to keep the rival short on plot cards, or steal the ones that will
hurt the most.

Other Threats
The Lawyers. No, no, don't do it. It's too obvious. Look, be sensible, you have
all that Criminal power, take them instead either from hand or as a sandbag,
they are a powerful Criminal group.

The FBI. This group very is bad news, destroy it at the first possible
opportunity. Even if you have previously annoyed the Servants of Cthulhu their
help is pretty much guaranteed. (Finally petition the Secret Masters for a new
plot card - The Second Thing We Do....)

Weird And Fanatic Stuff
Forget Discordia, they are unlikely to have enough clout to do you damage.
However, Cthulhu with a lot of Weird and or Fanatic Violent cards can be a
serious threat. These cards are dangerous, destroy them if possible. B.A.T.F. is
a great help in getting rid of Fanatic Groups.

The Endgame
Go for it. Take what you want and laugh. Ideally placed it should be possible to
have at least ten plot cards in your hand once your final turn starts, more with
luck. Do it with style, sandbag The Mafia from Cthulhu and whatever the sucker
has hanging off it. Grin, slowly count your groups and announce, "Oh look, I've
won." Be subtle, (by Zurich's standards), leave yourself one group short when
you do this and then play Criminal Overlords. Or alternatively just take that
last Bank you need. If all else fails take a government group with a card or two
hanging off it. Japan would be highly amusing (especially if controlled by
Shangri La), but potentially difficult. Texas, Israel, The Post Office or The
Pentagon are easier. Suitably placed the options are almost endless and with all
those plot cards it's a good bet you can laugh at any attempted interference.

Or be really subtle and start from three groups short of a win, which may appear
to everyone else to be even further away. One Automatic takeover, one Privileged
Attack, play Blitzkrieg. Lo and behold, you are one group short and have action
tokens on all your groups bar one and a fist full of plot cards. Easy isn't it!

And if all else fails, do not forget this is a Gnomes of Zurich power deck so
simply bludgeon your enemies to death!

So Why Not These Cards?
Tax Reform - Look get real, play that and every player will gang up to destroy
the IRS. It is a risk not worth taking.

Disasters and Assassinations - If you need 'em, or use the IRS, (or plot cards)
to plunder them from your rivals.

Wall Street - Well it is a Bank. But it is Corporate. Try to defend it with
Criminal groups, see what I mean, forget it. Oh and forget all those other
Corporate groups as well.

Switzerland - Why bother!

Other Potentially Useful Cards
Power For Its Own Sake - not really ideal, but works well if the Necronomicon
and/or Cyborg Soldiers are added into the deck. Substitute Soulburner for one of
these, it's only really there as a deterrent against being attacked and the
chance to mess with opponents plot cards.

Emergency Powers - Goes very well with the above idea.

Up against the Wall - This is sneaky, if the opportunity is right, why should it
only be the Servants of Cthulhu who start destroying their own power structure?

The Holy Grail - an excellent addition to the protection of New York.

Agent in Place - another way of messing with an opponents plots.

Logic Bomb - not as effective as The Auditor From Hell but still useful.

George the Janitor - keep messing with plot decks.

Nationalization - an excellent way of making a Criminal group Government as
well. Try it on the Mafia!

Assertiveness Training - Another way of supporting Government groups with the
Criminal groups (well Violent Criminal groups).

The Pentagon - Bavaria sandbag.

Texas - Bavaria Sandbag.

CIA - Sandbag against anyone playing Violent Government or a useful addition if
you want to make the deck more aggressive.

Secret Service - As above.

Phone Phreaks - Network Sandbag.

Post Office - Network Sandbag.

NSA - Network Sandbag. Oh, and it's a Secret group.

Thanks to Brian Strassman for offering useful advice and spotting a couple of
omissions on the first draft.

Back to the Deck of the Week.
