Cruel Brittania
by Stephen Harkleroad

Sure, England's power is reduced *today*... but not necessarily *tomorrow*…
Card Data
Illuminati:

    Atlantis

Groups:

    Cable TV
    China
    Congressional Wives
    England x2
    Israel
    Local Police Departments
    Madison Avenue
    Multinational Oil Companies
    NATO
    Post Office
    Republicans
    Supreme Court
    Templars

Resources:

    Big Prawn
    Clipper Chip
    Cyborg Soldiers
    Lenin's Body
    Midas Mill
    Power Satellite

Plots:

    Cover of Darkness
    Dictatorship
    Early Warning
    Emergency Powers
    Forgery
    GOAL: Corporate Masters
    GOAL: Power For Its Own Sake
    Hat Trick
    Hidden Influence
    Hoax
    March on Washington
    Media Blitz
    Media Connections
    Monopoly
    Murphy's Law
    New Blood
    NWO: Bigger Business
    NWO: Gun Control
    Partition
    Savings and Loan Scam
    SMWNMTK
    Stars Are Right
    Stealing the Plans
    Weak Link

Strategy
The Plan [Editor's Note]

    Stephens Atlantis deck relies on pumping up a single group, and giving it
global power, (preferably with a resource to avoid the threat of cancelling). I
consider creating a monster group and giving it global power one of the core
plays of Atlantis, and a thing it does better than Bavaria. If your plan
involves giving several groups global power, then it is often a better idea to
play Bavaria and go for the raw power instead.

    Stephens deck also uses Atlantis special ability, which is always a good
idea.

Beginning

    Lead England. All cards and everything you do from this point forward is to
protect England. If you bounce, lead China. Your goal is to increase the power
of England as high as possible, and eventually give it global power equal to its
regular power.

Mid Game

    Don't be too aggressive with your growth. Link either Midas Mill, Media
Connections, or Hidden Influence to England as soon as possible; if you try to
do it later, when it's pumped up high, you'll get cancelled easily. (In fact,
link it when their Power is still 2 just to confuse 'em.) Once you hit 7-9
groups, hold back.

    Bring out your Resources conservatively. Use The Stars Are Right with the
Templars; you'll have to get their power to 4 if you want to do this (try New
World Order cards, or the Local Police Departments, to achieve this). The
Templars won't seem out of place with your special ability (which, by the way,
you should use aggressively).

    Israel is primarily in the game as a good global power Violent Government
group… but it's also there to take some of the brunt of the disasters that are
sure to come up against England. Both the Republicans and the Congressional
Wives are simply groups to permit the occasional attack to control a Government
group from your hand.

Endgame

    Your plans shouldn't be that apparent, but astute players may pick up early.
Don't worry too much. Your plan is to pump England's power up as high as
possible, with Midas Mill or Hidden Influence making this power count as Global
Power.

    England itself is at 2 Power. Link Emergency Powers (or, if possible, New
Blood) to bring it to 6. Make it a Dictatorship (+2). Link either the Big Prawn
or the Cyborg Soldiers to double this to 12. Bring out a Clipper Chip (+2). Your
final value of England is now 16. If you can't link one of these cards, or if
they are Backlashed or otherwise discarded, you can make up for it with New
World Order cards (Gun Control, mostly). By this time, you should have the Midas
Mill/Hidden Influence linked to it. With Atlantis's own Global power, this is 23
total Global power. Most of your other groups have some form of Global Power; it
shouldn't be too much of a stretch to bring it up to 35. Madison Avenue (+3),
NATO (+2), Post Office (+3), Israel (+3), Multinational Oil Companies (+4), and
Cable TV (+2) will all bring the total up to 40 Power, with some to spare.

    Hidden Influence, Midas Mill, and Media Connections all make Global Power
equal to the permanent power. You only need to use one of these on England, so
what you don't use on England you can use for your other groups.

    If you're feeling lucky, Partition England. You have enough cards to
increase both Englands to 6, double it, and add global power… but just barely.
If you want to try this, you may want to pack some extra cancellers in the deck
in case your opponents wise up.

    Once you achieve 35 Power, you can try for the basic goal, or since many of
your groups are Corporate, you can (with the aid of the Local Police Departments
and/or Bigger Business) go for the Corporate Masters. Or, if you can, pull out
the Clipper Chip, and make a run with Power for its Own Sake, disregarding the
basic goal altogether.

    If all else fails, you have two action tokens worth 16+. Crush the people
who stopped you.
    The Great Switch to China

    If your obvious ploy of pumping up England fails, switch to China. All the
same ploys you use for England also work for China. In fact, if the going gets
rough, just go with China in the first place. I prefer England because it has
two tokens, but you may value the -20 penalty for China instead. The majestic
abilities of Lenin's Body also gives China Global Power. Then, through either
the magic of a Dictatorship or the Big Prawn, you've got another powerhouse card
that will be nigh impossible to destroy. If you can get both China and England
to be 12+ global Power, more power to you.

Potential Problems

    Only NATO specifically helps protect England. All of the other groups are
simply there as easy targets to take control of fairly easily, or are there for
their global power.

    Once you get to a certain point, your ability to gain Global Power is
limited without the help of Plot cards. Use the few cards that do enhance Global
Power to their maximum benefit.

    Dictatorship cannot be Backlashed, so once played you're fine. Just watch
for a Revolution! Media Connections also cannot be Backlashed, either. The Midas
Mill, along with the Cyborg Soldiers and the Big Prawn, are Gadgets or Magic
resources, and as such can be destroyed easily. Be prepared to use Cover of
Darkness.

Variants and Substitutions

    Again, most of the groups in this deck are primarily are easy-to-control
groups. This is best done through Congressional Wives or the Republicans. If you
want more Media groups or Corporate groups instead of Government groups, feel
free.

    Many of these cards are fairly popular groups, especially China and the
Republicans. You can replace them if you wish, or just pack in a Payoff.

    [Editors note: If you want to expand the coastal place theme, which is very
fitting for Atlantis, then USA should definately be in the deck, if you have it.
Philo Drummond + Al Amarja + 3 Fisted Tales of "Bob" could give you another
coastal place with good global power. If you want another angle on the "one big
group" approach, then a all-church + Messiah could also prove interesting.]

    "A little luck and a little government are necessary in life, but only a
fool trusts either of them." --P.J. O'Rourke

Back to Deck of the Week
