Cuius Testiculos Habes

by Ralph Melton

Making deals is good. But it's difficult to have the card that another player
would find most useful. Therefore, to be in the best bargaining position, you
should go to the other players' decks for your deal-making potential.

This deck depends on having at least three players in the game for two reasons:
firstly, it really needs automatic takeovers, and second and more important,
it's much much harder to make profitable deals in a two-player game; the other
player tends to be suspicious of your motivations for some reason.

The name of the deck is due to a Terry Pratchett book, Small Gods. The full
quote is "Cuius testiculous habes, habeas cardia et cerebellum," which Pratchett
translates, "When you have their full attention in your grip, their hearts and
minds will follow." The correct translation was supposedly featured on a sign in
the office of Chuck Colson, one of the Watergate conspirators, which brings the
circle back to Illuminated conspiracy.

In this deck, I am following the example of Rudi Gross in presenting a core deck
with a set of 7-card 'sideboards'. In this deck, though, the sideboards
encapsulate a very customizable winning strategy for the deck.
Illuminati

    UFOs 

Group Cards

    Arms Dealers
    Bank of England
    Cattle Mutilators
    I.R.S.
    The Great Pyramid
    N.S.A.
    Rosicrucians
    Book of Kells 

Plot Cards

    The Auditor From Hell x2
    Back to the Salt Mines
    The Big Score
    Backlash
    Bribery
    Cover-Up
    Embezzlement
    Giant Kudzu
    Go Fish
    Good Polls
    Harmonica Virgins
    Hoax
    Martial Law
    Murphy's Law
    Mutual Betrayal
    An Offer You Can't Refuse
    Pizza for the Secret Meeting
    Power Grab x2
    Savings and Loan Scam
    Seize the Time!
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know x2
    Sorry, Wrong Number
    Terrorist Nuke
    NWO: Fear and Loathing
    NWO: Apathy x2 

Beginning

Your first priority is to have the Rosicrucians with the Book of Kells. This
ability to choose two plots per turn is critical to the success of your deck.

Towards this end, you should lead with the Rosicrucians. If you suspect that
someone else will also lead the Rosicrucians, you should attempt to bribe them
into letting you have the Rosicrucians. One reasonable bribe you can offer:
offer to take over a Resource for them in exchange for them letting you have and
keep the Rosicrucians. (This is also has the beneficial effect of getting people
into the habit of dealing with you even before the first turn of the game.)

If for some reason, you bounce on the Rosicrucians, lead with the N.S.A. or the
Great Pyramid, and plan on spending UFOs actions to draw Group cards as quickly
as possible so that you can get the Rosicrucians first.

If you have a Power Grab by the time you make your first Automatic Takeover, go
ahead and use it; both your ATOs should be Groups. If you don't have a Power
Grab, but you have the Book of Kells in your hand, use an Illuminati action to
take over the Book of Kells and link it to the the Rosicrucians.
Midgame
During the midgame, your turns will be relatively boring. You will almost always
do one of two things on your turn: Either a) use the Rosicrucians to find a
Power Grab before your ATO, and ATO two groups, or b) make an ATO and use your
Illuminati action to take over a Resource. This will be sufficient for you to
grow at a quite respectable rate; in fact, you should be careful not to grow too
fast, because if you're the leader of the pack, you may get pounded. You should
take over your groups in approximately the following order, depending on
circumstances, and with appropriate interleavings of groups from your variable
victory sideboard:

    Book of Kells
    Great Pyramid
    N.S.A.
    Bank of England
    I.R.S. 

You should try to take over the Cattle Mutilators and the Arms Dealers at the
same time, since they work best together.

You should certainly use the free abilities of the N.S.A and the I.R.S. on every
turn.
Deal-making for Fun and Profit

While you're doing relatively little on your turns, you should be doing a great
deal (pun intended) on everyone else's turns. You should attempt to always keep
one action token that will let you draw a plot and one action token on the
Rosicrucians; this will let you get at any Plot in your deck at any time.

Be creative in your deals! There are many things you can offer in deals:

    Your power in attacks (particularly Global Power)
    The Plot cards in your deck
    The Plot cards in other people's decks (see below)
    The information you have about other players' decks, hands, *and* past deals
with you.
    The power of your extra Illuminati token; for example, you could easily be
given a Resource card by another player, take it over, and give the resource
back to the player as part of a deal.
    ... 

Similarly, there are many things that you could accept from others as part of a
deal:

    Plot Cards
    Promises of Amnesty
    Information; for example, a player could show you his Plot hand as part of a
deal. 

These plots are intended principally as bargaining chips for your deal-making,
although they may certainly be used for your own purposes. The selection of
these plots should be customized heavily to those plots which promise the best
deal-making potential for your play group.

    Back to the Salt Mines
    Backlash
    Bribery
    Good Polls
    Hoax
    Murphy's Law
    Pizza for the Secret Meeting
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Sorry, Wrong Number
    NWO: Fear and Loathing
    NWO: Apathy 

Note that Hoax, Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know, Bribery, and Murphy's Law
must be played immediately after the event they affect; you can't use the
Rosicrucians to go fishing for them. It's probably worthwhile to keep a Secrets
in your hand as a safety precaution.

I put in more Secrets than Hoax because another player can always power a
Secrets with plot discards, and if you need to power it yourself, you can
usually do so with an Illuminati action without risking a discard.

But you won't always have the exact plot that another player would find most
convenient. For that purpose, you have various plots and cards designed to let
you learn about and raid other people's decks and hands, or to let you draw more
plots of your own to deal with (though you could certainly use these as
bargaining chips):

The Auditor From Hell
    Either the N.S.A. or the I.R.S. would be a good group with which to power
this. You'll almost certainly want to steal a card instead of exposing the
plots, especially because there are fewer cards that work on exposed plots than
hidden plots. 
Bank of England
    This falls the squarely into the 'draw lots of plots of your own' category. 
Cattle Mutilators / Arms Dealers
    You can use this combination to expose all of an opponent's Plots, and then
force a trade for those exposed plots. If you convince a third player that all
your plots are good, perhaps you can get them to give you some disposable plots
for your dealing. 
Embezzlement
    This can be best used when you know what card someone has drawn because of
the N.S.A. See if another player will give you a disposable plot to power the
Embezzlement. 
The Great Pyramid
    This lets you see the first card each player draws on each turn. Since this
doesn't require the Great Pyramid's Action Token, its token can be used to
interfere with attacks as part of your deal-making. 
Go Fish
    You should only use this when you know a card the player has in their hands;
ideally, you would know what cards in their deck they'll be discarding, too. If
you want to force them to discard the top cards on their deck, see if another
player will make you a deal for a card that you can fish for. 
I.R.S.
    The uses of the I.R.S. as a plot Predator should be reasonably obvious. I
elected not to put NWO: Tax Reform in this deck, because a) I considered NWO:
Apathy too useful as a bargaining chip, and b) This deck doesn't have enough
defensive ability to handle the concerted attacks that Tax Reform provokes. If
you choose to include NWO: Tax Reform, you should make plenty of deals to give
some people their taxes back, so that Tax Reform works to their benefit as well
as yours. 
    Since the I.R.S.'s ability doesn't require its action token, the I.R.S. can
be used to power plots or to interfere with attacks. 
Mutual Betrayal
    As Dan Myers has pointed out; Mutual Betrayal need not be all that mutual;
it gives you a chance to look at another player's hand, and if you choose not to
expose any cards, only you know what you have seen. 
N.S.A.
    This is an excellent tool for learning what people are about to draw; this
knowledge can guide your use of the I.R.S., Go Fish, Embezzlement, and An Offer
You Can't Refuse. 
An Offer You Can't Refuse
    Your Group deck is small enough that the cost of not drawing any Groups that
turn is not too high. Again, you should have some information about what Plots
you're drawing. 
Savings and Loan Scam
    This is just a way to get more plots cheaply and rapidly. 

The other plots provided are mostly for defense, or perhaps a single attack.
Your first line of defense should be your willingness to make deals with
everybody, though. In particular, you should try to get people to negotiate with
you before they play Instant attacks on your groups, particularly since, if the
negotiation breaks down, you can fish for a plot card to improve the target's
defense before the hammer strikes

Seize the Time! is essentially just another ATO for you. You should do the usual
things of spending your action tokens before you Seize the Time, and knocking
immediately after your ATO without making any attacks.
Blind Auction Deal-making

A particularly effective technique for deal-making is what I call the 'Blind
Auction' technique. Here's an example of how it works:

Suppose player A is attacking Player B. Player A shows you a plot card and says
he'll give it to you if you help him attack Player B. Before you accept, you
turn to player B and ask, "Player A has made me an offer to have me help him
attack you. Would you like to offer me something not to get involved with the
attack?" If he makes a counter-offer, you can turn to Player A and repeat the
process.

The key is that the two parties involved should not state their offers aloud,
and you should not state their offers aloud; you only state which offer is
better at the moment. This means that the two parties vying for your services do
not know what the other player has offered, so they can't judge how much to
sweeten their offer to make it slightly better than the other player's offer. It
also means that you are free to decide which offer is better based on other
factors, such as who needs to be thwarted, or which offer will better promote
rivalry between other players.
Endgame

With so much fun making deals, it's possible to lose sight of the fact that the
goal is to win. This is where the sideboards come in.

This deck is very versatile, and the awesome Plot control provided by having two
action tokens on the Rosicrucians makes it possible to pull off a lot of
stunning surprise victories. You should pick one of these victory setups
beforehand, when you build the deck--and then change it the next time you play,
to keep people guessing.

This deck (in all its variations) is also very good at shared victories,
particularly when you can offer bargains like 'if you give me a group, I'll give
you back your Goal...'
The Adepts of Hermes Sideboard

    Adepts of Hermes
    Manuel Noriega
    New York
    Crystal Skull
    Unmasked!
    Goal: Criminal Overlords
    one more useful card 

ATO New York at some point during the midgame, and take over the Crystal Skull
to give you extra Plot control. You can Unmask as the Adepts of Hermes to make
the Book of Kells and the Crystal Skull count towards your victory condition,
let New York take over Manuel Noriega at a 17 or less, and then reveal your
Goal: Criminal Overlords, which makes New York, the Arms Dealers, and Manuel
Noriega count double.

An Assertiveness Training might not be amiss, to let you turn the I.R.S. or the
Cattle Mutilators into Criminal Overlords.

This sideboard gives you a bit of power to share a victory, since you can
exchange a Group for a Magic Resource and be no further from victory.
The Shangri-La Sideboard

    Shangri-La
    Japan
    New York
    Clipper Chip
    The Big Prawn
    Kinder and Gentler
    Unmasked! 

You can generate 30 points of Peaceful Power out of the blue if you've
previously taken over a Clipper Chip. Here's how it works:

    ATO New York.
    Kinder and Gentler a Power-6 group belonging to someone else with an
Illuminati action.
    Unmask as Shangri-La
    Use an Illuminati action to bring out the Big Prawn. Link it to New York,
and use it to make New York Peaceful.
    New York then attacks to Control Japan, at a 16 or less.
    When you're done, New York is at a power of 16, Japan is at a power of 8,
and the Power-6 Group brings the total up to 30 points of Peaceful power. 

You can rearrange the order of these actions based on what people will think is
risky and what they will be able to counter. For example, if someone has a Hoax
or Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know, you should Unmask before there's a lot of
Peaceful Power in play; if someone has the Nuclear Power Companies, you should
bring out the Big Prawn before it appears that that will be horribly
threatening.

This variation also offers a lot of room for shared victories, particularly with
other Shangri-La players.
The Gnomes of Zurich Sideboard

    Gnomes of Zurich
    Federal Reserve
    Clipper Chip
    Unmasked!
    NWO: Chicken in Every Pot
    Two other useful plot Cards 

With a Clipper Chip and NWO: Chicken in Every Pot, the Bank of England, the
I.R.S., and the Federal Reserve will all count double for the Gnomes of Zurich,
even if someone plays NWO: Don't Forget to Smash the State.

One liability of this approach is that it only gives you three groups counting
double. This can be compensated by the fact that fewer cards are required, so
you can put in more useful plots, and by playing this variation in games to
fewer groups.
The Society of Assassins Sideboard

    Society of Assassins
    Clone Arrangers
    Clipper Chip
    Mob Influence
    Unmasked!
    Two other useful Plots 

With the Clone Arrangers, the N.S.A with a Clipper Chip, and a Mob Influence on
the Cattle Mutilators, you should be able to have three most-powerful Secret
Groups. This variation falls into the same liability of the Gnomes of Zurich
victory that at most three groups count double.

(Bonus hint: with any of these approaches, you can often make the following deal
if the Assassins are in the game: "Give me your Clipper Chip, so that the
Assassins' Clone Arrangers don't count double for him.")
The Power For Its Own Sake Sideboard

    Manuel Noriega
    New York
    Clipper Chip
    Cyborg Soldiers
    Mob Influence
    Goal: Power For Its Own Sake
    NWO: Gun Control 

Did you realize that if you have New York, Clipper Chip, and NWO: Gun Control,
New York has at least a 22 or less to take over Manuel Noriega, and that once
they do, Manuel has a power of 8? This variation is a fairly standard
Government/Violent/Gun Control combination.

There are more possible sideboards for this deck, with new and original ways to
win. However, five is a fine number, and I want to keep a few secrets, so I will
list only these five combinations. Please let me know about the others that you
find.
Potential problems

The biggest potential problem is that you don't have the power to make more than
one successful attack. This means that you really have to win with a surprise
victory.

If you get thwarted in your bid for victory, start dealing for a shared victory
immediately, since it will be hard to win on your own.

If you've picked a variation that runs into conflict with another player, you
may have problems. If you picked the Shangri-La variation, this is much less
likely to be a problem, of course.
Variants and Substitutions

There is a lot of room for variation in this deck. In particular, the
deal-making cards should e adjusted to fit what's most useful in your play
group.

Some plot-predator cards I left out:

    Copy Shops
    Crop Circles
    Go, Lemmings, Go!
    Las Vegas
    Logic Bomb
    Nice Idea. It's Mine Now
    Stealing the Plans
    NWO: Tax Reform (if you play Tax Reform, you'll probably want to give back
the plots you take from some players, in order to get enough goodwill to keep
the I.R.S. and Tax Reform in play.) 

I deliberately left out all the cards that force a rival to discard cards, such
as the Templars, the Wargamers, and the Psychiatrists, and the Internet Worm.
The reason: If you force an opponent to discard cards, then you can't make deals
with him to give them back.

Some deal-making cards I left out:

    Are We Having Fun Yet?
    Computer Virus
    Cover of Darkness
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers
    March on Washington
    Near Miss
    Time Warp
    The Weak Link
    NWO: Interesting Times 

Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: April 26, 1997

Last modified: April 26, 1997
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
