INWO Deck: Cyber Rights Now!

Concept: You are Steve Jackson Games, raided for GURPS Cyberpunk. You are Craig
Neidorf, arrested for editing Phrack. You are technoliterate, you are mad, and
you're NOT gonna take any more crap from Exon, Dole, or anyone!
Illuminati

    The Network 

Groups

    Big Media
    Black Activists
    EFF
    Finland
    France (x2)
    Hackers
    International Weather Organization
    Orbit One
    Phone Company
    Phone Phreaks
    Silicon Valley
    Video Games (x2) 

Resources

    Library at Alexandria
    Perpetual Motion Machine 

Plots

    Auditor From Hell
    Backlash
    Bavarian Illuminati
    Benefit Concert (x2)
    Cold Fusion
    Computer Security
    Double-Cross
    Early Warning
    Emergency Powers
    George the Janitor
    Hidden Influence
    Infobahn (x2)
    Liberal Agenda (x2)
    Market Manipulation
    Meteor Strike
    Murphy's Law
    Nuclear Accident
    Self-Esteem
    Unmasked!
    The Weak Link
    GOAL: Power to the People (x2)
    NWO: Chicken in every Pot
    NWO: Political Correctness (x2) 

Strategy

This deck has a four-pronged strategy: seizing Computer groups, defending your
Power Structure, getting as many Plots as possible each turn, and boosting your
Power for one of three possible wins.

Seizing Computer groups: Lead with groups that give additive bonuses to any
attempt to control Computer groups. Good choices are the Phone Phreaks (for a
+6) and Video Games (for a +3). If both of these are blocked, other choices are
the Hackers, Finland, and Silicon Valley. If you can get out all of the additive
groups *and* the Library at Alexandria, you'll end up with a total +22 bonus to
seize Computer groups. You might be able to speed-play a win (which is why I put
18 groups-worth into the deck), or steal what you need from your foes, without
even worrying about your Goal card.

Defending your structure: If you're playing against aggressive players, you will
want to protect yourself off the bat. Your two ideal leads are France (which
will give +3 to any defense of your Liberal grpoups, more with boosters or NWOs)
and the EFF (which will double the defense of any Computer group). You will also
want the International Wearther Organization out to protect your places,
especially France!

Drawing Plots: Lead with Orbit One and put as many Science groups as possible
underneath it. Each one translates to an extra plot draw each turn, giving you
as many as *five* Plots even before buying action token Plots! Get the EFF and
the IWO out to protet Orbit One. If someone else decides to steal it and you
hate them having it, you can Meteor or Nuke it in orbit.

Boost your Power: You may want to go for the goal, which is actually a preferred
method of winning. Use Power Boosters on France and Finland and go after choice
Conservative Corporate groups. Get CieP and PolCor out to help out these attacks
even more. The Video Games are your ideal lead, because they will only increase
your Power every time you seize another Computer group. And if you get up high
enough, consider Unmasking as Bavaria. If you can get 40 points of Power out,
unmasking is an instant win. Alternately, just use your Power to grab Liberal
groups (and you'll have an easy time grabbing Liberal Media too, if you have Big
Media out).

Switch Cards: This deck *depends* on the EFF. Buy one, or steal one. The other
rares, however, can be replaced if necessary. Finland is there for a +2 additive
bonus (in addition to being a Liberal group). You can fill in for it with the
Wargamers, SF Fans, or Japan. Eliza can go in place of the PMM. If you don't
have Computer Security, use Are We Having Fun Yet? or even put the Nuke Cos in
the deck. Hidden Influence can be replaced with Commitment (to boost Resistance
instead) or Grassroots Support (because you have one or two Straight groups in
your deck). Unmasked! is only useful if you think you'll have a chance for a
50-Power Bavaria win. Otherwise, fill this gap with two other useful plots. And
the Weak Link can be replaced by any other Resource-killer, such as Suicide
Squad or the Deasil Engine.

Alternate Strategies: Fundie Money to provide Conservative targetsxs on demand.

Weaknesses: No yellow NWO is good for you! You may want a Sweeping Reforms or
Blood, Toil to get rid of one if it gets to be a problem. And you have much more
to fear from other Liberal players than from a rival Conservative player! If the
Feminists come out, *destroy them*. The Phone Company, which is not Liberal and
has a high Power, is a good choice to lead the attack, especially with an
Infobahn behind it.

Notes: This is a good speed deck and a good defensive multiplayer deck. And it
*can* be built without breaking the bank - if you had to build it from scratch
using local card prices (Commons $0.25, Uncommons $0.50, Rares $1.50), it would
only run you $24.50.
Back to the Deck of the Week.
