INWO Deck - Invasion of the Gadget Snatchers
by Aaron Curtis

Introduction

This deck is decended from Double Predator, a deck I wrote which can be found on
the DotW archive at predator.html The key concept to Double Predator is to use
die-roll-adjusting cards like Murphy's Law, Computer Virus and WITCH to make Las
Vegas and Suicide Squad succeed every time, and prey on your opponents' plots
and resources. The Predator concept is the only idea that links the two deck,
though: This one preys on your opponents' *group* decks, a method previously
unavailable...

The Deck
Illuminati

    Discordian Society 

Groups

    Comic Books
    Evil Geniuses for a Better Tommorrow
    General Disorder
    L-4 Society
    Recycling Centers x 2
    Society for C
INWO Deck -- Death Geeks
by Doug Ingram

You laughed at them. You called them "Poindexters". You called them "geeks" or
"nerds". But while you were at the prom with your dream date, they were in the
basement, designing a better shortwave radio or a better pipe bomb and hatching
the evil plots that would eventually serve Cthulhu (who else?).

The Deck
Groups

    C.I.A.
    Cycle Gangs
    F.B.I.
    Fiendish Fluoridators
    Int'l Weather Orgnztn.
    L-4 Society
    Newt Gingrich
    Ninjas
    Phone Phreaks
    Robot Sea Monsters 

Resources

    Crystal Skull (UNIQUE)
    Mercenaries
    Weather Satellite 

Goals

    GOAL: Blinded by Science 

New World Order Cards

    NWO BLUE: Fear and Loathing
    NWO BLUE: Interesting Times
    NWO RED: Solidarity 

Plots

    Atomic Monster
    Bribery
    Cold Fusion
    Commitment
    Computer Virus
    Cover of Darkness
    Flesh-Eating Bacteria
    Giant Kudzu
    Good Polls
    Hoax!
    Infobahn
    Martial Law
    Mob Influence
    Murphy's Law
    Nevermore!
    New Blood
    The Second Bullet
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Seize The Time!
    Self-Esteem
    Sorry, Wrong Number
    Strange Bedfellows
    Sufficiently Advanced Tech.
    Terrorist Nuke
    Truck Bomb
    Volcano
    The Weak Link 

Strategy
This deck is designed using the following "house rules":

    No duplicates.
    Auto-takeovers are allowed.
    Play to 12 groups. 

If you want to play with duplicates, there is some room for it. I personally
wouldn't take anything OUT of the group deck just for the purposes of putting in
a duplicate, and I also would be very reluctant to expand the group deck from
its current size of 13. After all, most games don't go longer than six rounds,
and barring forced group deck discards ("Death to the S.C.A.!!"), you won't run
out of groups until the 7th round.

I include an Ultra-Rare Assassins card in this deck (Flesh-Eating Bacteria),
though I will emphasize that it is not at all necessary. If you don't have it,
then you can sub in any other plot card or disaster. I offer some alternative
plots at the end of this deck description. I also include a "special" card,
Strange Bedfellows, which appears in Pyramid #18. This one isn't quite so easy
to substitute since it makes such a potent combination when combined with NWO:
Fear and Loathing.

Of the five rare cards I include in this deck, three of them can be fairly
easily replaced by less rare cards. For example, the CIA can be replaced by
Clone Arrangers (though that's such a popular card, I hate to use it) or any
other powerful Violent group (Violent + Gov. is best, but Violent is crucial for
Truck Bomb). Cover of Darkness is not crucial to the deck, but it is nice to
have. There aren't any other cards that do quite the same thing. Finally, the
Weak Link can be replaced by the less versatile Deasil Engine (also rare) or any
other Resource-penalizing card (such as Lab Explosion).

Lead
One nice feature about this deck is that it really takes advantage of the fact
that you get to draw three plots BEFORE you decide on your lead group. If you
get a power increase card (Mob Influence, Self Esteem or New Blood) consider
leading with one of your weak groups of the appropriate alignment (Phone
Phreaks, Robot Sea Monsters, Int'l Weather Organization or Ninjas). It's nice to
get those in play right off the bat with boosted power.

If you're paranoid about getting things out before other people, then you'll
want to lead CIA or Newt Gingrich. CIA is probably best. You don't want to
reveal the fact that you have Newt until one or two Liberal groups are already
on the table. You'll be taking a chance on someone else getting Newt out first,
but you don't want to scare those Liberals away. After all, with a direct attack
to destroy by Newt on any Liberal group in the game, you'll be at a +18. I
personally like being able to say "So what?" when someone lays down NWO: Apathy.
:)

Early Game
First priority is to get out the Crystal Skull before anyone else does. In all
likelihood, you'll be doing a fair bit of plot drawing in this game, and the
sooner you get out the Skull, the better. This is doubly true if the Adepts are
playing: monopolize arguably the best Magic resource in the game, and you've
surely crippled him. If a couple of places are out by the end of the first turn,
then start getting out your bonuses to destroy them with Cycle Gangs, Int'l
Weather Organization and the Weather Satellite. If it doesn't look like a
place-heavy game, then save these for later and check out the alignments on the
table. Play your best groups for destroying the most threatening alignments in
the game (i.e. Fiendish Fluoridators for Straight/Conservative, Newt for
Liberals, etc) and start hacking away at power structures.

I've found that Cthulhu's first couple of attacks to destroy usually aren't all
that unpopular, and if for some reason a lot of players aren't hoarding tokens
for defense, you can get two or three groups in your pile by the end of turn 2.
If you're feeling especially vicious, you can use Sorry, Wrong Number to help
cripple someone for the entire game or knock them out entirely! Most of the
time, though, you'll want to spread the pain around so as not to give any one
player enough of a head start over the others to beat you to the win. As
Cthulhu, it's better for you to have stronger opponents who have grudging
respect for what you're doing (attacking everyone) rather than for you to just
pick on one player, who won't be willing or able to help you prevent someone
else from winning later. IMHO, of course.

Offense and Defense
The most annoying NWO for your deck is Don't Forget to Smash the State. This
deck doesn't include any Yellow NWO's to counteract that, so if this is a
popular card in your group, you might consider some of the alternative plots at
the end. I find that I can usually work around such a card until it is
counteracted, as it inevitably is by someone playing a Straight or Government
deck. This is one case where you may have to use a little diplomacy if Smash the
State is really cramping your style.

The NWO's I have included are all fairly obvious. Solidarity protects you from
having your groups stolen and doesn't really hurt you since you care more about
destruction than control (also slows down the other players). Interesting Times
is a nice panic button to push when someone is on the verge of winning. Fear and
Loathing is a must for any Cthulhu deck with its bonuses to destroy for opposing
alignments. You have enough of a variety of alignments in this deck that you
will always find a good use for Fear and Loathing. If you draw Strange
Bedfellows, impress your group by using it in a powerful way, altering a roll by
16 if Fear and Loathing is in play or maybe even 32 if you've got the right
combination of alignments. How often does a single card (given the Fear and
Loathing NWO, anyway) change a roll by 32? Not even the mighty OMCL's can top
that!

If there are a lot of places in the game, go ahead and pull out the Weather
Satellite. Otherwise, it isn't worth the effort. Don't underestimate the
usefulness of Mercenaries or Weather Satellite. Both have the ability to make a
big difference in a game where Apathy is in play (groups can't aid attacks, but
resources sure can!). If a few personalities are in play, pull out the CIA and
the Ninjas and try a few assassinations with a +8 bonus. Fear and Loathing and a
power boost card for the CIA can make these attacks unstoppable.

Defensively, watch out for the Network or any other player who is building up
bonuses to take over Science or Computer groups. Keep them weak if you can, and
save your tokens for group defense, especially on power-boosted groups. Don't
blow more than two tokens in any given attack to destroy. If it takes more than
two, it probably isn't worth the effort and it will leave you extremely
vulnerable. Some of your groups are naturally defensible but not all of them.

General Strategy
This deck is probably best tuned to place-killing. If you have Flesh-Eating
Bacteria in your deck, then this can be the key card of the game simply because
of the fact that if the disaster succeeds in destroying the target, you get the
card back! If there aren't any vulnerable places in your game, then go for the
basic goal. Don't worry about your Science goal...it's not a negligible threat
by any means, but it will come without effort thanks to your group deck. In
fact, I would go out of my way early to get out CIA and Ninjas just to foster
the illusion that this is a standard Cthulhu deck and not a science deck. If you
need an extra science group at the end, Ninjas can be turned with Sufficiently
Advanced Technology, so you really have eight science groups in your deck.

Be prepared to have one or more of your groups taken away, most especially Newt,
who strikes fear into the hearts of Liberal deck-builders everywhere. If you can
destroy two liberal groups in a game with Newt, then you've gotten about all you
can expect to get from him. Heck, you might even consider killing him yourself
with the CIA just to make sure no one else gets him.

Watch out for another Cthulhu player. You probably won't have too many duplicate
groups, but even with the power-boost cards in your deck, you're bound to have
some easy-to-destroy low power groups in your structure at some point that are
ripe targets. Don't worry too much about power gamers, especially those with
Straight/Conservative/Government combinations. With the Robots and the
Fluoridators in play, you'll have +13 on any attempt to destroy such groups. The
FBI works well against Violent/Criminal decks.

Finally, DON'T FORGET TO DRAW PLOTS WHEN YOU DESTROY GROUPS.

Alternatives
If you are missing one of the above groups or really don't feel comfortable with
a 13-card group deck, you can always add Dinosaur Park for an even stronger
anti-Place theme. Or Anti-Nuclear Activists, if you like to win via
self-destruction (with Newt and the Anti-Nukes, this isn't a far-fetched
strategy). If you're really looking for a use for Ultra-Rares, you can throw
Militia into this deck. Good replacements for the CIA are: Clone Arrangers or
The Mafia (best), Texas, New York, Pentagon. Of all the group cards in the deck,
Weather Satellite is probably the most expendable and perhaps can be replaced by
Dinosaur Park to make a stronger deck. I haven't tested this.

Given the discussion above, here are some other plots you might want to consider
(which plots to sacrifice for these or for duplicates is left as an exercise to
the reader):

    Yellow NWO: Law and Order (only use to cancel Smash the State)
    Yellow NWO: Bigger Business (add Dino. Park, NPC's, shake well).
    Annual Convention
    Atomic Monster (sub for Flesh-Eating Bacteria)
    The Auditor from Hell
    Benefit Concert
    Cover-Up (at times the only protection for Robots/Fluoridators)
    Deasil Engine
    Exorcism (for a Zap-happy group)
    Lab Explosion (slows down Adepts a bit)
    Market Manipulation (esp. if you anticipate a Gnomes player)
    Messiah (free power boost for Newt IF he sticks around long enough)
    Senate Investigating Committee
    Sniper 

Back to the Deck of the Week.
reative Anarchism
    South American Nazis
    WITCH 

Resources

    Flying Saucer
    Killer Satellite
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers
    Perpetual Motion Machine
    Principia Discordia
    X-Ray Specs 

Plots

    18 1/2 Minute Gap
    Albino Allegators x 2
    The Big Sellout
    Cold Fusion
    Computer Virus x 2
    Deasil Engine
    Fnord!
    Forgery x 2
    Freaking the Mundanes
    Grave Robbers
    Jake Day x 3
    Media Blitz
    New Blood
    NWO Interesting Times (blue)
    NWO Don't Forget to Smash the State (yellow)
    NWO Apathy (red) x 2
    NWO The Magic Goes Away (red)
    NWO Solidarity (red)
    Power Grab
    Reverse Whammy
    Seize the Time!
    Terrorist Nuke
    Upheaval! 

Evil Schemes
The most important tricks in this deck involve Recycling Centers, which is why
there are two in the deck.

Recycling Centers have the incredibly useful ability to spend their action token
to salvage any Gadget Resource or Group which is discarded. This is the only way
to get group cards from your enemies, and the best way to steal Resources.
Specifically:

1. Whenever someone fails to take over a group from his hand, and discards it,
RC can take the card into your hand, just like Vultures.

2. Whenever someone uses a group card as Agents, whether they succeed or fail,
one copy of that card will be discarded. Just salvage it and use it as an Agent
when it's your turn!

3. You can FORCE YOUR OPPONENT TO DISCARD A GROUP CARD by using the Society for
Creative Anarchism's action, then salvage it with RC. This is a deadly combo,
and can really piss some people off.

4. When you play a plot that requires you to discard group cards from your deck
(Fnord!, Reverse Whammy, The Big Sellout and 18 1/2 Minute Gap), you can salvage
your own card into your hand with RC.

5. You can destroy your opponents' Gadget Resources with Killer Satellite or
Deasil Engine, then salvage it with RC.

6. When someone uses Forgery to steal a Unique Gadget Resource, you can salvage
the "fake" with RC, then use your own Forgery to take it!

Needless to say, Recycling Centers are the single most important card in this
deck. Everything else is designed to either protect them or make use of their
unique power. As it turns out, the Discordian Society and Weird Science do this
very well. More schemes are listed below.

Lead
If you have NWO Solidarity in your initial plot draw, lead with Comic Books. In
almost all cases, however, you want to lead with South American Nazis, as they
can control any Weird Science group from your hand on a 10 or less, and one of
these is almost guarenteed to be in your inital draw.

Growth
Comic Books can control any Weird group from your hand on a 9 or less, and any
Weird Violent group get +12 to control another from your hand, thanks to
Discordia's special ability. SA Nazis also do well, as mentioned aboved.

For taking over Resources, there are several options. Grave Robbers can take
Flying Saucer, Perpetual Motion Machine or Principia Discordia into play
directly from your deck! Use it to take Flying Saucer if possible, as that
allows you to take over an extra Resource each turn for the cost of a plot card,
and you have lots of Resources to take. Evil Geniuses for a Better Tomorrow can
spend their action to take any Gadget Resource, but it has to remain linked to
them forever. This is good for X-Ray Specs, Killer Satellite and Orbital Mind
Control Lasers, and many Gadgets you can steal from your opponents: Cyborg
Soldiers, Earthquake Projector, Soulburner, Weather Satellite, Spy Satellite,
and Blivit! If all else fails, you can use your Illuminati token or ATO to take
a Resource, but this is to be avoided if possible.

Slowing the Pace
One difficulty with playing a Weird deck is the lack of raw power and quick
growth seen in some other decks. A powerful counter to these decks is to slow
the pace of growth so as to give you more time to act. The NWOs in the deck are
the key cards to do this with:

Solidarity: Doubles the resistance of all groups. With Comic Books, twice
nothin' is nothin', but your opponents will have difficulty taking groups out of
their hand. This is even more effective against a Secret deck.

The Magic Goes Away: Everyone loses their automatic takeover, among other
things. Play this *after* your ATO, with another red NWO in your hand. When the
play gets around to the person before you, play the other red NWO *after* he
places action tokens. Ta-da, you've stalled your opponents one group each!

Apathy: Groups may not aid any attack. This is best played after someone has
attacked you and aided with several groups, as it makes all the aiding actions
illegal. [Note: As of 2-22-96, it is not clear whether these actions are lost or
returned. Stay tuned.] Apathy makes it very difficult to attack groups out of
hand, and nearly impossible to attack rivals. Meanwhile, SA Nazis and Comic
Books can still attack out of your hand on a 10 or less all by themselves.

Don't Forget to Smash the State: It's too easy to build a Bavarian Government
powerhouse deck, and this hurts those decks a lot.

Interesting Times: It's best to save this NWO until after someone else has
claimed victory, as it not only gives you a second chance, but if they claimed
victory with a goal card, it gets exposed!

Also, these NWOs can be used to replace other NWOs that help your opponents too
much, such as Fear & Loathing, Political Correctness, Gun Control, Bigger
Business and Law & Order.

The last method this deck has to slow down opponents is with Upheaval! Bring
General Disorder into play first, then play Upheaval! at the first opportunity.
When you discard General Disorder, you get him back a turn later! You can
salvage one of your opponents' discards with Recycling Centers, but remember
that the group is considered destroyed, so either use Media Blitz to revive it
or use it as fodder for The Big Sellout later. Note that if Cthulhu is in the
game, or if someone brings out Hitler's Brain, get General Disorder out sooner
rather than later, in case they have an Upheaval! up their sleeve.

Editor's note: The ruling on Upheaval! has been changed so that the affected
cards are destroyed, not discarded. If you discard General Disorder due to
Upheaval!, you do not get him back. Caveat player. RLM 1/24/97
Defense!
Your first line of defense, of course, is Discordia's immunity to Government and
Straight groups. Never forget this! It's the reason why you don't need to worry
too much about a Green deck stealing Recycling Centers from you, as the key
cards Canada and Al Gore are both Government.

Unless your opponents are unaware of the power of Recycling Centers' ability,
wait until you have a Jake Day in your hand before you bring them out, and play
it on them immediately. Otherwise, you'll have nothing to defend them with
except your Illuminati and a few weak points of Global Power. South American
Nazis also become more defensible if you play Jake Day on them, but this is less
necessary as several of your groups are Violent and thus able to defend them.
Making your groups Weird with Jake day becomes much more effective when you have
Principia Discordia to boost their Resistance.

The +10 cards (Cold Fusion, Albino Allegators and Terrorist Nuke) are there more
for defense than offense, especially against attacks to destroy: five out of the
eight groups in this deck have power 1.

Reverse Whammy, 18 1/2 Minute Gap and Computer Virus are also useful defensive
cards. Remember to salvage the group card from your deck when you play RW, 18
1/2 MG, or Fnord!

Media Blitz can be used to revive Recycling Centers if your opponents manage to
destroy it, or to revive a group which was destroyed (say, by Upheaval!) and
salvaged.

Offending Your Foes
There are still plenty of opportunities for attacking your opponents, using
guile rather than brute strength. The first involves making your target enemy
group Weird using Jake Day or OMCL. If it's Science, the SA Nazis have at least
a power of 14 to take it, plus alignment bonuses, plus 4 more if you have L-4
Society. Even better, if Comic Books participate in the attack, the target's
Resistance is reduced to 0! This is a very good way to steal someone's Nuclear
Power Companies when they least expect it.

Use X-Ray Specs to view your opponents' group decks so that you can spend the
Society for Creative Anarchism's token to discard a group you really want, or
really don't want them to have. Their also useful for looking at your own decks.
Be sure to take notes when looking six cards deep.

Use Killer Satellite to destroy an enemy Spy, Power or Weather Satellite, and
use WITCH and/or Computer Virus to guarentee the result. Or use Deasil Engine to
destroy the Gadget of your choice. Be sure to salvage!

The Endgame
As much fun as you're having, it's easy to forget that the goal is to win and
not just frustrate your opponents. This deck makes no pretentions: win with
Discordia's special goal. Well, almost. If you take one or two Science groups
from your opponents you can pretend to have Blinded by Science in your plot
deck, and this might distract them. Fortunately, there are several ways to get
Weird groups with power 3 or more. First, there's WITCH. Second, Jake Day can be
used on SA Nazis, or some other group that you stole from an opponent. Third,
any Weird Science puppet of S Am Nazis gets +3 power. Finally, New Blood can
bring one violent group to power 6. By the time you have enough groups you
should have no problem getting at least three with a power of 3 or more.

About New Blood: If you can steal some Cyborg Soldiers from an opponent, play it
on the Evil Geniuses for a power of 12. Otherwise, it's best played on Comic
Books or General Disorder.

In the reach for victory, or if you're needing some help in the midgame, there
are three cards in this deck to get you going. Freaking the Mundanes will reload
your Weird groups, up to a total power of 5, for the cost of an illuminati
token. This should be good for about 3 tokens, preferably Comic Books, SCA and a
Jake Day'ed Recycling Centers, and is best used earlier rather than later, if
possible. Seize the Time! is a classic and needs no introduction. One suprise
use of either of these cards is to play it after you've used the tokens from SCA
and RC, and want to feed again. The third powercard is The Big Sellout. You can
use it to turn the useless group cards you've been amassing into action tokens,
and you can spend group cards from your deck for action tokens as well, and then
use RC to salvage the ones you want to keep. Only The Big Sellout allows you to
put tokens on groups that already have one, including your Illuminati. It is
best saved until you plan to win.

Substitutions
This is a very tight deck, and too many substitutions will weaken it severely,
perhaps fatally. The vital groups are Recycling Centers, Society for Creative
Anarchism, SA Nazis, Evil Geniuses, and Comic Books, and at least one other
Weird Science group. The vital Resources are Principia Discordia, OMCL, and
Flying Saucer. Of the NWOs, Interesting Times can be replaced with A Thousand
Points of Light, Don't Forget to Smash the State can be replaced with
Military-Industrial Complex or Antitrust Legislation, and The Magic Goes Away
and Apathy can be replaced with one or more Solidarity; just be sure to have at
least four red NWO to slow your opponents down with.

The plot deck needs the multiple Jake Day, Forgery, Computer Virus and +10 cards
in order to be effective. The rest can be substituted, although at least two of
the three powercards mentioned in The Endgame should be kept. Note that Voodoo
Economics is *not* a good substitute for The Big Sellout.

Cards I had to cull in order to reduce this to 45 cards:

    Let's You and Him Fight
    Cover of Darkness
    Faction Fight
    The Weak Link
    Reload!
    Let's Get REALLY Organized
    Commitment
    Annual Convention
    Blivit
    Suicide Squad
    Lama Ramadingdong
    SMOF
    Trading Card Games
    More Jake Day, Forgery, Computer Virus, Solidarity and +10 cards. 

Last modified: January 24, 1997
Back to the Deck of the Week.
