Deck of the Weak
by Christiam Stenner

Hey, kiddies! More German groups than you can shake a tentacle at…
Card Data
Illuminati:

    Servants of Cthulhu

Groups:

    Burschenschaften
    California
    Canada
    Democrats
    Finland
    France
    Hollywood
    Italy
    Triliberal Commission
    USA
    Autonome

Resources:

    Rogue Boomer
    Screaming Meme

Plots:

    Apathy
    Back to the Salt Mines x3
    Censorship x2
    Chicken in Every Pot x3
    Meteor Strike
    Fundie Money
    Good Polls x3
    Interesting Times x3
    Law and Order
    Near Miss x3
    Power to the People x2
    Savings & Loan Scams x3
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know x2
    Seize the Time!
    Self-Esteem
    Waiting Period

Strategy

    Note: the Meteor Strike Plot which is in this deck was originally a
Flesh-Eating Bacteria; however, rules clarifications made before the official
release of this deck impelled us to change the card. You may tailor this slot to
your taste. (see Variants/Substitutions)

Beginning

    Lead puppet is the Burschenschaften. Then start either with the Autonome (if
you draw them and fear someone else might have them in his deck) or with France
or USA (if you are in fear of Truck Bombs). On your first turn, you draw a group
card with the Burschenschaften and then destroy them. So you look rather weak
after that, but in fact have 3 groups out of eight you need..

Midgame

    Continue to pretend to be weak. Never put a group into the second line. You
need the +10 proximity bonus and a Good Polls at the beginning of each of your
turns to defend yourself. Attack others only with massive help from someone else
and preferably only the opponents to your right. Turn them conservative, if you
manage to get to a good attack number. But better safe than sorry - keep your
tokens for plots to quickly get into the Endgame. 

Endgame

    If you have three liberal groups at the beginning of your turn in your power
structure or the player to your left tried to win, but failed due to massive
token and plot contribution by the others (and maybe one of your Interesting
Times, the Waiting Period or Disaster), you will try to win. Make a takeover of
Triliberal Commission and secure it with Screaming Meme especially if you're
anticipating Annual Conventions). You also need the Goal Card, Censorship, your
disaster defense and a couple of blue NWOs to make it a sure win controlling
Hollywood. 

Potential Problems

    As always, if someone else does the same thing or knows what you prepared,
you will have problems. Autonome in another player's or even Cthulhu's hand are
bad, too. Try to convince in such a case your fellow victims that it would be OK
for him to destroy one group, but more groups would give him too much of a lead.
Then try to get the Autonome. You also might have them yourself, make them
conservative and then destroy them.

    The biggest problem is if the player to your right is very fast and the
other players expect you to stop him. But that is mere psychology…

Variants

    This version of the deck is made for 45 cards, twelve groups and a three
card limit in game with only Cthulhu players attending to it. When I first
played it in 1985, I guess, I used Bavarians and organizations and won as the
starting player on my second turn. This was the first time I played at Birger`s
Musiversum…

    Editor's notes: the slot left open by Flesh-Eating Bacteria can be
substituted by a variety of cards: another Disaster (Giant Kudzu makes a nice
one-two punch with Autonome), Revolution (if you're usually up against other
Nations), Nuclear Accident (if you see NPCs a bunch), and so on. The three
German cards (with the exception of Autonome - good thing it's a common, huh?)
are flexible, with a nod towards the Liberal alignment, of course. 

Back to Deck of the Week
