Discordian Monodeck
by Martin Laerkes

It is quite common to fear everything outside our definition of normality. To
believe that there is a "them" - simply defined by being the opposite of "us".

But true weirdness is so much more than the mere reversal of society's values -
its essence is beyond our understanding, and far beyond our control. The
practitioners of true weirdness are too weird to be defined, and too weird to
care for definitions. They are weird for the sake of weirdness, they are the
followers of chaos, of strife, of Eris…

Card Data
Illuminati:

    Discordian Society

Groups:

    Al Amarja
    California
    Drs. For "Bob"
    Gay Activists
    The Hour of Slack
    SMOF
    Science Fiction Fans
    St. Janor Hypercleats
    SubGenius FisTemples
    Tabloids
    Trading Card Games
    Vampires

Resources:

    Necronomicon
    Power Satellite

Plots:

    13013 x2
    Albino Alligators x2
    Bulldada
    Crop Circles
    Devival x2
    Eternal Salvation or Triple Your Money Back
    Freaking the Mundanes x2
    Good Polls
    Miraculous Manifestationsq
    Nationalization
    Or Kill Me!
    Overman
    Reverse Whammy
    The Saint of Sales
    Savings and Loan Scam x2
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Seize the Time
    Time Control
    Voodoo Economics
    The Weird Turn Pro
    Goal: The Anti"Bob"
    NWO: Apathy
    NWO: End of the World
    NWO: Fear and Loathing
    NWO: Military Industrial Complex

Strategy
Introduction

    The Discordian Society is a very defensive Illuminati, a trait that it
shares with Shangri-La. The prevalent Discordian deck types all seem to revolve
around Discordia's immunities. "Juggernaut" decks consist of high power groups
sharing an alignment that is protected by the immunities - and can then rely on
sheer brute force to repel any attack that makes it through the first line of
defense. "Shell" decks focus on increasing the defensive capabilities of
Discordia in various ways - such as picking up groups that bestow more
immunities or by manipulating dice rolls. Shell decks are also quite popular
with Shangri-La players.

    Ambitious as this may sound, this deck is an attempt to establish a new
breed of Discordia deck - the "Mono" deck. This deck type is based on an
observation regarding the Discordian immunities: time and time again, the
immunities fail to protect, when your rivals bring too much power to bear on a
single group that is not completely covered by your immunities. Indeed, "a chain
is no stronger than its weakest link". If one of your key groups is liberal, you
can be quite sure that it will be destroyed by your rivals' massed conservative
power.

    The solution is remarkably simple: Employ only 'mono' alignment groups, i.e.
groups with only 1 alignment - protected by Discordia's immunities. The deck
presented here is a mono weird deck, because that is the most stylish way to
play Discordia - and besides, you have both a goal and a control bonus to
support you. Even though mono decks are supposedly about defense, this
particular deck is a speed deck. Why? Because the main element of a speed deck
is actually a strong defense. If you are saving all your tokens for defense, you
will never be able to take advantage of any speed you may have.

Beginning

    Lead with S.M.O.F., or should that by some miracle bounce, use Science
Fiction Fans as a back-up. You already have a very good bonus to control more
weird groups - so try to grab one or two on your first turn, (and don't forget
S.M.O.F.'s extra +4 to take SF Fans and Trading Card Games).

    Your plot deck is basically made up from defensive cards, speed cards and
power-ups. The speed cards will help you get more plots and more tokens, so that
you don't run out of steam. The defensive cards will support your rather weak
power structure, so that you can spend your tokens on growing instead of
defending. The +10 cards are definitely for defense more than for offense.

    Finally - the power-ups can help you both on offense and defense, and are,
along with the resources, important for completing your illuminated goal.

Midgame

    Try to grow quickly, while keeping track of your rivals' offensive
capabilities. Besides global power, you have little to fear - so you'll have a
pretty good idea about what attacks you can expect, and whether you have the
necessary cards on hand to stop them.

    Always make single token attacks. Spending tokens to increase the power of
your attacks will not do you much good, since your biggest asset is your control
bonus, and not your actual raw power. Anything that will give you extra tokens
(including Goal: The Anti"Bob") should be used sooner rather than later.

    If your rivals look like they can pull off an attack, then Hour of Slack can
get you more defensive plots when under attack, and Drs. For "Bob" with
increased power can be very potent if your power structure is set up right.
Nationalization can be used to stop one group with a lot of global power from
interfering with your attacks, and Bulldada is your last line of defense.

    Don't take over California until you are ready to win - it's in the deck as
the proverbial nail in the coffin.

Endgame

    In addition to your speed, you have a number of ways to make 3 of your
groups count double towards your goal. It is up to you whether you play these
power increases sooner or later - depending on whether you need a little extra
defense, or prefer an element of surprise.

    13013 can boost any SubGenius group, but don't play it on St. Janor, as he
can use either the Overman, or the Necronomicon. The Necronomicon can also boost
the Vampires. Power Satellite is there for Al Amarja - while The Weird Turn Pro
can be used on anyone. NWO: The End of the World will annoy both Corporate and
Government rivals, and will make SubGenius FisTemples count double as well.

    Finally - California, taken as an ATO, or by exchanging Trading Card Games,
will make Tabloids and Hour of Slack count double, and also counts double
itself. If you do take over California, be sure to make it a puppet of Al
Amarja, so that you can protect it from last-minute disasters.

Potential Problems

    If you run into a rival Weird deck, you may be looking at trouble. In this
case, try to make a predatory attack to control against his power structure.
Removing a key token with S.M.O.F. first, may prove decisive.

    If you face a lot of global power, you may have to slow down a little - but
remember, a power 1 or 2 token is pretty worthless for defensive purposes, so
perhaps it is still spent better in an attack.

    [I also note that this deck, like all monochrome decks, is VERY susceptible
to Scandal. Beware Media decks, and jump on any Weird groups you find there -
other alignments notwithstanding. - Alex]

Variants and Substitutions

    Making substitutions to the group deck, you have a limited range of groups
available to you - so see if you think that some of them suit you better than
the ones I've chosen, just keep the groups mono-weird. That being said -
CONspiracy will make a killer replacement group for California.

    [I also briefly considered Comic Books for a substitution - despite their
extra Violent alignment, it might be useful if someone in your group is in the
habit of playing Solidarity or other attack-foulers. It would be a weak point,
but on the other hand would also give others a non-vital group to destroy… -
Alex]

    The plot deck has just a single rare card, but if you lack any cards, or
indeed the SubGenius set - you should be able to substitute pretty freely, as
long as the ratios between power-ups, speed and defense remain mostly unchanged.

    The real fun begins when designing other mono decks. First off, this deck by
no means depletes the possibilities of a mono weird deck. Try throwing in
Psychiatrists and Wargamers, and you will have yourself quite the plot killer.

    Corporate mono decks are also viable, not to mention quite powerful. Just
add Goal: The Corporate Masters, and look out for NWO: Antitrust Legislation.
Government mono decks too can also be constructed, relying on Clipper Chip and
Goal: Power for its Own Sake for the victory. A Partition or 2 could provide a
few extra groups if you don't have enough.

    [Note that in all the above scenarios, I'd suggest substituting in another
Good Polls or two. Because of the small powered Groups, Good Polls might not be
as effective as your +10s as defense (noting that Good Polls last longer), but
once you start building monochrome decks with Government or Corporate Groups,
your base powers make Good Polls much more attractive. - Alex]

    It is in fact possible to construct a mono deck (with immunity and all)
without playing Discordia. Vatican City gives immunity to Peaceful groups - and
is itself Peaceful and Conservative. By removing its Conservative alignment with
Big Prawn, and reversing its Peaceful alignment with a Dictatorship, you can
play a mono Violent deck - immune to Peaceful groups. The question is, whether
being immune to Peaceful groups is worth the hassle, but if you do play such a
deck, Saturday Morning Cartoons can make same "alignmentless" groups your key
operatives.

Back to Deck of the Week
