Fusion Seppuku

"Fusion Seppuku" is the name I've given to a deck theme for Illuminati: New
World Order, a trading-card game from Steve Jackson Games. The name comes from
an rpg story told by a friend of mine, Scott "Stormy" Whitney, roleplayer and
cast-iron tcg-phobe. Naming the deck in his honor is a bit of irony he fails to
appreciate.

The deck revolves around the careful use of the World War Three card in a
Servants of Cthulhu deck. If you read the card with an illuminated eye, you'll
notice that if WW3 is in play, and one of your Nations attacks another of your
Nations, no matter which way the dice fall, a group will be destroyed and it
will count towards your victory conditions. Thus, once there are eight Nations
in play, you can, in one turn, destroy them all and win.

The text of the major cards:
Servants of Cthulhu PictureServants of Cthulhu

Power 9/9
Goal: For every group you destroy, reduce by 1 the number of groups you need to
control in order to win. You may also count rival Illuminati which you destroy
by removing their last group. If you destroy 8 groups, you win, regardless of
how many you control!
Ability: You have a +4 on any attempt to destroy, even with Disasters and
Assassinations. Draw a Plot card whenever you destroy a group!
World War Three

New World Order Plot Card

Any Nation making a direct Attack to Destroy against another Nation has tripled
power. If it succeeds, the attacking Nation gets a Plot card and another Action
token immediately! If it fails, the attacker is destroyed, and counts toward the
victory conditions of the defending player.
This card replaces any Yellow NWO card in play.
The Deck

This is what I have in my current Fusion Seppuku deck:
Illuminati

    Servants of Cthulhu

Groups

    Brazil
    Canada
    China
    England
    Finland
    France
    Germany
    Israel
    Italy
    Japan
    Russia
    Switzerland
    Vatican City

Resources

    Rogue Boomer

Plots

    18 1/2-Minute Gap
    Agent in Place
    Blitzkrieg
    Bribery
    Dictatorship
    Early Warning × 2
    Emergency Powers
    Fnord!
    Good Polls
    Hat Trick
    Hoax
    Martial Law × 2
    Murphy's Law
    New Federal Budget
    NWO: Chicken In Every Pot
    NWO: World War Three × 2
    Power Grab
    Revolution!
    Savings & Loan Scam
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Seize the Time!
    Senate Investigating Committee
    Swiss Bank Account
    Volunteer Aid
    Voodoo Economics
    World Cup Victory × 2

Hints & Questions
Lead

Your lead should probably be Japan. It's a strong card, and it's also a popular
lead, so you stand a good chance of screwing one of your opponents' openings. If
you do, Vatican City is your fall-back lead.

Why the Rogue Boomer? Why not NATO or the UN?

Well, one of the weaknesses of this deck is that you may need to have eight
Nations out in order to destroy them and win. In a 10-group-goal game, 8 Nations
+ your Illuminati + NATO = you've already won. Obviously, your opponents aren't
going to let you get that far. The Rogue Boomer, however, doesn't count toward
the basic goal, but nevertheless gives you a +5 to control any Nation, and a +10
to destroy one, once. (You should also probably try to use the Fusion Seppuku
deck mostly in games where the basic goal is 12 or 11.)

Combinations

Russia has a +4 to control China. Japan and Finland each have a +6 to control
the other. Germany and England are token factories, and France has "virtual"
tokens. Remember that China is at -20 to be destroyed! It's best to launch a
doomed attack from there, and let WW3 destroy it. It has been suggested that I
add the Ark of the Covenant to my deck; it would let the destruction go twice as
fast! Tricky and tempting; we'll see...

The Endgame

When you're ready to go for the win, hunker down and play World War Three. The
best place to run the attack from is Vatican City; it's the only Nation that
doesn't have the Government alignment (which would give you a -4 on the attack
roll). Start by going after Violent or Liberal Nations. The Vatican's modified
Power in such attacks is (4 x 3 (WW3)) + 4 (opposed alignments) + 4 (Servants
bonus) = 20. If the Vatican has any puppets, go after them early; sooner or
later you're going to roll an 11 or 12, and you don't want juicy targets being
returned to your hand when the Vatican loses a fight.

When you succeed in an attack, you get to place a new token on the attacker, and
draw two Plot cards (thanks to WW3 and the Servants). If you should happen to
fail, the attacker is destroyed, but you still get to draw one Plot.

After the fourth or fifth group, your opponent may start to freak out a little.
By this time you should have over 10 Plot cards in your hand, so you'll have
defenses against whatever he may try.

Strengths & Weaknesses

Your whole deck is built around the Attribute of "Nation". In addition, all of
these Nations are Places, most are Government, and a lot are Coastal. The
strength is that you have a homogenous structure; the weakness is that you have
a big sign on your butt saying "Disaster Target!". Be prepared with your Early
Warnings and such.

The biggest strength is that it is so unexpected. In a normal game, it doesn't
pay for the Servants to destroy their own groups; they might as well count
towards the basic goal, ne? WW3, however, lets you optimize for
self-destruction, and steal the victory out of a fallout-blackened sky.

Jim Jarrett posted to rec.games.trading-cards.misc with his experience with the
deck:

    From: jarrett@pixel.kodak.com (Jim Jarrett)
    Newsgroups: rec.games.trading-cards.misc
    Subject: INWO: Fusion Seppuku Trial
    Date: Tue, 02 May 1995 16:54:42 -0400

    Well, I got to try the Fusion Seppuku variation this weekend. I had to try
to build the deck from memory and got the groups & WW III ok...I had thought I
had saved some notes that described good cards to aid in that.
    The first time I played, my opponents said, "Gee, you've got an awful lot of
places...." but did nothing about it. Someone else won because I couldn't get to
WW III and was also trying to privatize Germany and link Brazil, Hawaii, China,
and Perpetual Motion to it, just for evil grins.
    Second time, "Gee, you still have an awful lot of groups [places]..." but
still no disasters. I had to destroy a couple of groups from other players, so I
had 2 down. Got WW III out, and started the Orgy of Destruction. I had stacked
my deck with lots of New Federal Budgets, which worked juicily. I actually only
needed to destroy something like 3 of my own groups, plus the two already
destroyed, left me with enough groups + destroyed to win. My opponents didn't
appreciate the subtlety and schemingness of the deck.
    I want to try it one more time (since my opponents never seemed to catch on
to loading up with disasters!) and build it for a 2-turn win. A Sieze the time,
Crystal Skull, Rosicrusions (sp), and some more Hoax/Secrets Man Was Not Meant
To Know will round it out.
    Thanks for the idea, Jonathan Woodward!

Card text and art is copyright Steve Jackson Games, and no threat to that
copyright is
intended.