
INWO Deck: Gaia's Revenge
Do you have a player in your INWO group that always plays the Gnomes of Zurich?
Or, did the Nuclear Power Companies cancel your action one too many times? Then
Gaia's Revenge is for you.
The Deck
Illuminati
Servants of Cthulhu

Groups

    Al Gore
    Anti-Nuclear Activists
    California
    Canada
    CFL-AIO
    Eco-Guerrillas
    Feminists
    France
    International Weather Organization
    Rifkinites
    Robot Sea Monsters
    Underground Newspapers 

Resources

    Angel's Feather
    Bigfoot
    Weather Satellite 

Plots

    Backlash
    Benefit Concert x 2
    Bribery
    Early Warning
    Emergency Powers
    Giant Kudzu
    Good Polls
    Hat Trick
    Hoax
    Liberal Agenda
    Market Manipulation
    Meteor Strike
    Murphy's Law
    Nuclear Accident
    NWO Chicken in Every Pot
    NWO Fear and Loathing
    NWO Political Correctness x 3
    Save the Whales
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Self-Esteem
    Sniper x 2
    Stealing the Plans
    Tidal Wave
    Voodoo Economics
    Goal: Power to the People 

Strategy
Lead
Lead with Canada. It should be able to take control of one Green group every
turn on a 10 or less. If another Cthulu player is in the game and you don't want
to risk disasters, lead with the Rifkinites instead. Once you have some other
bonuses out there (Bigfoot, Political Correctness, or the Anti-Nuclear
Activists), both the Rifkinites and Al Gore should be able to control a Green
group every turn on a 10 or less also.

New World Orders
Of course, play a Political Correctness as soon as possible; since you have
three of them you should be able to keep this card in play for most of the game.
The other two, Chicken in Every Pot and Fear and Loathing, are only marginally
useful in and of themselves, but they are blue NWO's and thus are invaluable for
discarding any World Hunger or Energy Crisis that comes into play.

Disasters
Bring out your resources(using the Servants' token) as quickly as possible, as
well as the International Weather Organization, to protect your places (France,
California and especially Canada) from disasters. On the other hand, once you
have any two of Weather Satellite, Int Weather Org, and Robot Sea Monsters,
start throwing disasters around, with a +12.

Other Offensive Capabilities
Emergency Powers and Self Esteem are most effective when used on Canada and
France, so that they can use their tokens to power Snipers, with a total
strength of 23 when Political Correctness is out.

Once you have any two of Anti-Nuclear Activists, Rifkinites, and Robot Sea
Monsters, and either the CFL-AIO or Eco-Guerrillas, you are ready to destroy
Corporate and Science groups directly, starting with the Nuclear Power
Companies.(If you have the Anti-Nuclear Activists, the CFL-AIO has an effective
power of 34 to destroy the NPC's!) Be sure to have the Undergroud Newspaper aid,
so you can draw two plot cards for your efforts.

If someone is playing a Media deck, get the Feminists out quickly and draw one
of their cards every turn, as many Media groups are Liberal.

Role-Playing Tips
This deck is fun to roleplay. You represent the ultimate eco-terrorists: your
goal is to destroy mankind and all his technology, so that the Earth can survive
and flourish without his mismanagement. Take a look at the woman on the
Rifkinites card: This is YOU! You must Ooze hatred for the Gnomes, anyone
playing a corporate deck, or a computer deck if no corporate opponents are
available, since many computer groups are also science.

George Harnish, who I provided with this deck design before there was an INWO
Deck of the Week, had this to say about his experience with Gaia's Revenge:

    I would have won by the fourth turn, but I wasn't aggressive enough. I
discovered (after I knocked) that I had a +40 to kill the NPCs (which had
Perpetual Motion Machine), so the fifth turn I attacked it three times, and
didn't realize I was one kill/takeover from winning till after I knocked again.
This was enought time for Discordia to win with their special Goal. I never had
the chance to play Political Correctness, either. I'm quite impressed with the
deck, and I will be using it again when the stars align themselves properly. I
like the lean design and "two pronged" approach (take over green groups or kill
corps) and it's defenses. Thanks very much. - George Harnish 

Back to the Deck of the Week.
