INWO Deck -- God Knows; We Can Find Out
Deck design by Dan Myers

A little knowledge is a dangerous thing, and a lot of 
knowledge is also dangerous . . . to your opponents. This 
deck uses Plots and Group special abilities to prove once 
and for all that Knowledge *is* Power.

The Deck
Illuminati

    The Network 

Groups

    *Arms Dealers
    Cattle Mutilators
    Evil Geniuses for a Better Tomorrow
    Great Pyramid (Place)
    N.S.A.
    Phone Company
    Post Office
    Society for Creative Anarchism
    Templars
    Wargamers 

Resources

    Book of Kells (Unique)
    Crystal Skull (Unique)
    Eliza
    Soulburner (Unique)
    *Spy Satellite
    *X-Ray Specs (Unique) 

Plots

    Adepts of Hermes
    Agent in Place
    Albino Alligators
    Assertiveness Training
    The Auditor From Hell
    *Bar Codes
    Cold Fusion
    Computer Security
    Computer Virus
    Cover of Darkness
    George the Janitor
    *Go Fish
    Hat Trick
    Hoax
    Infobahn
    The Internet Worm
    Logic Bomb
    March on Washington
    Mutual Betrayal
    Power Grab
    Reverse Whammy
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    *Security Leak
    Stealing the Plans
    *Sufficiently Advanced Technology
    Unmasked! 

New World Orders

    Gun Control (NWO Red)
    *Interesting Times (NWO Blue) 

* = Assassins! cards

    Total Group Deck: 16 cards; 10 Groups, 6 Resources
    Total Plot Deck: 28 Plots; 1 Illuminati, 25 Plots, 2 NWOs.
    There are no duplicates in this deck. It just worked out 
that way. 

Strategy
You are the information broker. You can look into other 
player's decks and see what they are up to, whether they can 
defend, and what their secrets are. And you are glad to do 
it, too; for a price. Early on you must establish that you 
can be bought. Offer to "research" one opponent for another. 
If someone gets out ahead, expose his plots and goals. When 
you look in a player's deck, tell him or her that you will 
keep it to yourself, so long as you are left alone. You can 
also use your knowledge to your own advantage. Spot who has 
the Resource-killers and make that person your friend-or 
someone else's enemy. Find useful plots in an opponent's 
hand and then trade him for them, whether by asking nicely 
or through Arms Dealers or Stealing the Plans. Whatever you 
do, don't yield to the temptation of randomly exposing plots 
and discarding groups; if you alienate everyone, your 
knowledge won't help you. And don't laugh evilly. It's *so* 
passe!

Lead
The high power, free move and special ability make the 
N.S.A. your obvious lead. If you get bumped, try the Evil 
Geniuses for a Better Tomorrow as your second choice. You'll 
need them close to your Illuminati when you link the X-Ray 
Specs to them.

Tactics
If you are lucky, several of the Spy Satellite, X-Ray Specs, 
Post Office and Phone Company will be in your initial hand. 
Link the X-Ray Specs up to a Science group as soon as 
possible, preferably the Evil Geniuses for a Better 
Tomorrow. Don't build too fast in the early game, and use 
your powers to slow down the other players.

If someone gets off to a roaring start, expose their plots, 
look at their groups, and tell the other players about the 
terrible things you find. Remember to make deals. If you 
have the Post Office, N.S.A. and Phone Company out, you can 
look at up to seven cards held by other players *without 
spending a single action token or using a single plot card!* 
Use that power, and cut deals with other players who want to 
know what *you* know. Don't use the discarding powers you 
have (from the Society for Creative Anarchism, Templars, 
Agent in Place, The Auditor From Hell, etc.) too early. 
You'll tick people off and make yourself a target. Early on, 
you're just nosey. Check out the lay of the land. Size up 
your opponents.

In the middle game, pick and choose among your opponents for 
the plots and groups you want to steal, or at least that you 
don't want *them* to have. See below for some Dirty Tricks 
to infuriate your enemies and delight your allies. And make 
sure you *do* have allies. Afflict the powerful, and aid the 
powerless. If you steal a plot that would help weak Player A 
defend her power structure against strong Player B, hand it 
over. Besides the joy of giving, you also make Player B 
miserable, and score points with Player A. Later, Player A 
may help you out of a jam, or at least Player B won't be as 
strong.

Victory
There are several victory strategies for this deck.

The Fast and Easy Power Win: N.S.A., the Phone Company and 
the Post Office all count double for the Network. If you get 
all three out, you are half way or more to a basic win in an 
11 or 12 group game. Use Power Grab to get two in one turn 
and seize the win early, if possible.

Editor's note: According to current rulings, you may not 
declare victory on a turn when you use Power Grab. 
Therefore, if you try to Power Grab your victory, other 
players may pound you. Caveat player. RLM 1/31/97

The Switcheroo Win: Get your Magic Artifacts out and use 
Unmasked! to become the Adepts.

The Through the Looking Glass Win: *Start* as the Adepts, 
then when you have N.S.A., the Phone Company and the Post 
Office out use Unmasked! to become the Network. This 
sacrifices the extra plot per turn, but you gain some 
security in group take overs from your hand. And finally...

The Ugly Win: Use your plot killing and espionage powers to 
hamper your opponents so they can't win. Expose Goals and 
discard them. Steal key plots and throw them away, or use 
them on the players you stole them from.

Dirty Tricks and other Tips
* Use your free moves, but use them wisely. If you look at 
everybody's hand every turn, people will get annoyed. Let 
the other players buy you off, or simply "forget" to use 
them once in a while.

* Eliza and the Book of Kells are almost as good as two 
Perpetual Motion Machines. Use Eliza to keep an extra action 
for defense on the Network. With the Book of Kells, you can 
boost your Illuminati's power or link it to a Magic group 
for an extra action token. If you link Sufficiently Advanced 
Technology to one of your Science groups, the Book of Kells 
will work for it, too.

* Don't forget to use your powers on your own decks to see 
what you have coming up and act accordingly.

* The NWO: The Magic Goes Away can really hurt you if you 
have your Magic Resources out. Keep NWO: Gun Control back to 
make *it* go away. Then turn the incident to your advantage 
by using Assertiveness Training on the N.S.A. or the Post 
Office.

* Mutual Betrayal needn't be all that mutual. If you don't 
expose any of your rival's plots, none of yours are exposed, 
but you still get to see his yourself. And the other players 
will want to know what you saw.

Dirty Trick: That Flushing Sound You Hear....

Link the Book of Kells to the Templars. Use the Cattle 
Mutilators or a Plot to expose the plots in a rivals hand. 
Force her to discard *two* of them.

Dirty Trick: Oh, No You Don't!

When a rival announces a win using a Goal Card, play NWO: 
Interesting Times to make only the Basic Goal valid. Then 
use the Templars to discard his exposed Goal before another 
Blue NWO is played.

Dirty Trick: Fish Finder

Although Go Fish can't be used on the victim the same turn 
you look at his or her plot deck, you can use Bar Codes to 
look at an opponent's *entire* plot deck, and next turn Go 
Fish for the ones you want. In any event, using this deck 
you should know more about your rival's decks than they do 
themselves after a few turns.

Editor's note: Bar Codes specifically says 'the Group deck 
of a rival'. You can't use Bar Codes to look through a Plot 
deck. RLM 1/25/97

Dirty Trick: Don't You Wish *You* Knew?

Only use this if you *really* want to aggravate someone. Use 
the N.S.A. or X-Ray Specs to look at the top three cards in 
a rival's plot deck. Then play The Internet Worm to force 
her to discard the plots without looking at them. *Then* 
offer to tell her what they were if the price is right.

Acknowledgement
I'd like to thank Aaron Curtis, the Creator of the Deck of 
the Week, for his comments and suggestions on an earlier 
version of this deck design.

Last Modified: January 31, 1997

Back to the Deck of the Week.
