Going One Better

by Sam Kington

Concept: If you only have one way to win, it's fairly easy for things to go
wrong. Now, if you have four...
Illuminati

    UFOs 

Group Cards

    Al Gore
    Druids
    Eco-Guerrillas
    EPA
    Fred Birch Society
    The Green Party
    International Weather Organisation
    Nutrition Nazis
    Phone Phreaks
    Science Alarmists
    Triliberal Commission
    The Library at Alexandria 

Plot Cards

    +10s
        Benefit Concert
        Cold Fusion
        Just Say No
        Save The Whales 
    Goals and related cards
        GOAL: Blinded by Science x2
        GOAL: Earth First
        GOAL: Power to the People x2
        Rewriting History
        Unmasked! 
    Other cards
        The Network
        Crop Circles
        Good Polls x2
        NWO: Antitrust Legislation
        NWO: Apathy
        NWO: Fear and Loathing
        NWO: Political Correctness x2
        NWO: Watermelons
        Oil Spill
        Reverse Whammy
        Savings and Loans Scam x2
        Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know x3
        Sorry, Wrong Number
        Sufficiently Advanced Technology x2 

Opening

Your lead should be Al Gore. Not only does he have a huge bonus to take Green
groups (so start slurping them up early), but he's also Liberal, Green and
Computer. He's not Science - but hey, we'll add that later.

If Al Gore bounces, try the Green Party.
Midgame

Your usual tactic will be to lead Al Gore, then ATO the Green Party. You now
have huge bonuses to take Green groups, and people will think that's the sort of
deck you're playing. Let them - actually, winning with Earth First is the most
difficult of your four ways of winning. If you can get the Library of Alexandria
out fairly soon, do so - it gives you a +5 to take all but three of your
remaining groups.

If someone is playing a Corporate deck, bring out the Eco-Guerrillas early if
there's a chance you'll be able to take out one of his groups. You also have an
Oil Spill, so if any Corporate or Conservative Places are looking vulnerable go
for them; you might even get some action tokens out of it. Oil Spill isn't
essential to the deck, though, so be prepared to use it in negotiations (to
remove the action token from someone's Place before a rival attempts to control
it). And if people start making threatening noises about you being close to
winning, and you can discard a Goal card without it hampering you too much, be
prepared to do so. Grumble about doing so, though, so they think they've
succeeded.

Whatever you do, don't play the Nutrition Nazis, Triliberal Commission or Fred
Birch Society as a group. Keep them till later, and don't let on that you have
them.

Otherwise, this is a fairly isolationist deck, so you should slowly build up
your groups. Exactly which course you'll take depends on the draw - you've got
acouple of Savings and Loans Scams, and once you get the Druids or a second
Sufficiently Advanced Technology you'll be able to use Crop Circles; also, as
the UFOs you'll have two action tokens per turn which you should use to draw
extra Groups.

If people start taking an unhealthy interest in your power structure, remember
the three Secrets, the +10s, the Good Polls and Apathy. You also have
Watermelons and Fear and Loathing to stop Interesting Times and World Hunger,
both which can cripple you; Antitrust Legislation will annoy the Corporates and
stave off Military-Industrial Complex or Don't Forget to Smash the State
(although most of your rivals will stomp on that one as well). Be sparing with
Political Correctness, and make sure you have one ready for the end game if at
all possible.

Oh, as an additional smoke screen, if you draw a Sufficiently Advanced
Technology when you already have one in your hand, waiting to play it on the
Druids (see later), place it on one of your Science groups. This has no use
(apart from allowing you to use Crop Circles with that group if you want - if
the Druids aren't already out, make a point of being happy that you can do this
now, at last) - but it will make your rivals wonder what you're up to.
Endgame

By this stage there's probably one Goal which is hopeless, another that will
need some work, and another that looks promising. Choose one, and go all out for
it.
Blinded by Science

If there are some juicy Science groups that you can take without too many
problems (you should have +11 to take Science with the Library of Alexandria and
the Phone Phreaks), go ahead. This may antagonise people, though. Anyway, you
don't need too many Science groups, as long as you can make them.

You should have Sufficiently Advanced Technology on one of your Science groups,
the Nutrition Nazis in your group hand, and the Druids. As long as you have 4
other Science groups (which should be fairly easy), you can play Sufficiently
Advanced Technology on the Druids, play the Nutrition Nazis on, say, Al Gore,
and hey presto, 6 Science groups.
Power to the People

This one requires you to have brought out four Liberal groups already (Al Gore,
the Green Party and two others - not that difficult) and have plenty of action
tokens. A few +10s will be useful as well; Fear and Loathing won't go amiss
either. ATO the Triliberal Commission. Take over the Fred Birch Society, then
immediately attack to destroy it. And voila: 6 Liberal groups, 2 Conservative
groups destroyed.
Earth First

This one is trickier, but is viable if there are a few Corporate groups on the
table, you've already destroyed one and you have Rewriting History. Again, Fear
and Loathing and a bunch of +10s, coupled with the Eco-Guerrillas, should make
it fairly easy; alternatively, you could just destroy the Fred Birch Society and
Rewrite History so it was Corporate. (This ties in nicely with Power to the
People). If there aren't any Corporate groups around, though, you'll probably
have discarded this Goal card during the midgame, as a gesture of goodwill,
complaining that now you can't win.
Unmasking as the Network

You have exactly three Computer groups in your deck (Al Gore, the International
Weather Organisation and the Phone Phreaks). If you get them all out, Unmasked!
and the Network come out, and you can keep a Political Correctness on the table
(all your Computer groups are weak), go for this win. It has the disadvantage of
requiring a slightly larger power structure, and more plots already in your hand
(at least four, if you count an extra Secrets to prevent Political Correctness
from going).
Pitfalls

Anyone playing a Green or Computer deck can do you a lot of harm. Liberal decks
aren't too bat - your Liberal groups aren't standard Liberal deck fodder, apart
from possibly the Triliberal Commission, and your Science groups aren't the most
typical Science groups either. If someone is playing a Computer deck, you might
as well give up on the Network goal - either discard the Network, or use it as
an agent (or trade it to someone).

If someone is playing a Green deck, though, you're in trouble. If you can,
sucker him into leading Canada, telling him you're doing him a favour; lead Al
Gore, ATO the Green Party, and blast Canada as soon as you can. (Oil Spilling
Canada would be nicely evil.) Your main priority is to remove his huge bonuses
to take your groups before he does the same to you.
Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: December 14, 1997

Last modified: December 14, 1997
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
