INWO Deck: Hail Elvis!

The point of this deck is to make Elvis into the most ridiculously pumped-up
character around. (Well, not quite. If everything worked out, this would get
Elvis to Power 23. I can think of ways to get his power higher, but 23 is such a
nice number, I decided not to.) Compare it to Kevin S. Tyrrell's The Cult of
Personality.

Other than that, it's mostly a straightforward Fanatic Society of Assassins
deck.
The Deck
Illuminati

    The Society of Assassins 

Groups

    Church of Elvis
    Church of Violentology
    CONspiracy (A German promo card. See the German card text.)
    Dittoheads
    Elvis
    Fiendish Fluoridators
    Intellectuals
    Media Sensation (Elvis Herselvis)
    Professional Sports
    Reformed Church of Satan
    TV Preachers
    W.I.T.C.H. 

Resources

    Orgone Grinder 

Plots

    Albino Alligators
    Assertiveness Training
    Blitzkrieg
    Celebrity Spokesman
    Charismatic Leader x2
    Full Moon x2
    Good Polls x2
    Hidden Influence
    Hoax
    Jake Day
    Jihad x3
    Messiah
    Meteor Strike
    Pizza For the Secret Meeting
    Power Grab
    Read My Lips
    Savings and Loan Scam
    Secret Master
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Terrorist Nuke
    Goal: Hail Elvis^H^H^H^H^HEris!
    Goal: Power For Its Own Sake
    NWO: End of the World x3
    NWO: Fear and Loathing 

I typically lead with Elvis, since there a lot of things that need to be
associated with Elvis:

    The Orgone Grinder
    Hidden Influence
    Messiah (with four churches in the deck)
    Dittoheads
    Professional Sports
    Secret Master 

If you get all of these out (highly unlikely) Elvis will be pumped up into a
power 23/23, Resistance 42 juggernaut who can only be destroyed by a most
unlikely assassination. (Or by the Voudonistas.)

You should try to keep NWO: End of the World, because it boosts all your Fanatic
groups quite a bit.

Full Moon is really cool, because it reloads all your Fanatic groups. It can be
easily used to add as much as 40 points of Global Power.

The Celebrity Spokesman should be used for your Media Sensation, who should be
named after your favorite Elvis impersonator. (Mine is Elvis Herselvis, a female
Elvis impersonator.)

The Goal: Hail Eris! is a stupid joke that I never managed to pull off. The idea
was to declare a victory with Hail Elvis!, because your three Elvis groups
(Elvis, Church of Elvis, and the Elvis impersonator) counted double. You would
still have enough weird groups that they would count double when the error was
pointed out.

I put in Goal: Power For Its Own Sake because I usually put one in when I have a
deck that gets to more than 70 points of power. It's notionally possible to get
Elvis up to 23 points of power and the Church of Elvis up to 11 points of power;
that in itself is an argument for a PFIOS.

The Assertiveness Training is there in case Shangri-La is in the game, because a
power-11 Peaceful group is a real pearl to Shangri-La.

Back to Ralph's INWO page.
Back to Ralph's Home page.

Last modified: July 8, 1996
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
