
INWO Deck: Heil Eris!
by Keith Edward Casner
Premise
This deck is built around the fact that the SANazis give a bigger power boost to
their puppets than any other... potentially, they can give +12 power to your
structure using LGReallyOrg'd.. and that's +12 of *Weird* power, so Discordia is
their obvious master. The only problem is there are only two Weird Science
groups, and they're both weak... but we can fix that, right?

The Deck
Illuminati
Discordian Society

Groups

    Clone Arrangers (lead)
    South American Nazis (2)
    Evil Geniuses for a Better Tomorrow
    L-4 Society
    Nuclear Power Companies
    Phone Company
    Comic Books
    SMOF
    WITCH 

Resources

    Necronomicon
    Cyborg Soldiers
    Principia Discordia
    OMCL
    Suicide Squad 

Plots

    Power For Its Own Sake
    Let's Get REALLY Organized
    Jake Day (2)
    New Blood
    Citizenship Award
    Monopoly
    The Wierd Turn Pro
    Cold Fusion (2)
    Terrorist Nuke
    Slush Fund
    Albino Alligators
    Cover of Darkness
    Reorganization
    Backlash
    Crop Circles
    Double-Cross
    Forgery (2)
    SMWNMTK
    March On Washington
    Murphy's Law
    Seize The Time!
    Swiss Bank Account
    The Weak Link
    Don't Forget to Smash the State
    World Hunger
    Solidarity
    Sweeping Reforms 

Strategy
Lead with the Clone Arrangers because they are a popular group and if you don't
get them right away you'll have to snatch them from a rival. They are also the
most powerful and best Science group, by far. Play Jake Day on them as soon as
possible. You can bring the SANs out whenever you wish, but preferably just
before you are ready for your endgame... see below. In general, it doesn't
matter what order you get your groups out in or how you arrange them, but EGFABT
should be put in play early. Use the Comic Books and SMOF to seize vulnerable
Weird groups from rivals, thus creating the illusion of a regular Discordia
deck. Bring out your heavy hitting Science groups under the pretext of "adding a
little firepower." Use New Blood on the EGFABT when you get a chance, Monopoly
on the NPCs or Phone Company, etc. The Nazis can have a Citizenship Award. Get
your Resources out quickly, but keep either the Necronomicon *or* the Cyborg
Soldiers in reserve. When you have the EGFABT and at least one other Science
group out, and the Nazis and the PFIOS Goal in you hand, you are ready for the
endgame.

Play Jake Day and use the OMCLs to suddenly make your Science groups Weird, the
play Reorganization to bring them under the Nazis. You can then win with Power
For Its Own Sake, by giving the Necronomicon to the Arrangers and the Cyborg
Soldiers to the EGFABT, while having as your last Nazis puppet either the
PhoneComp or NPCs (Monopolized, of course) or even the L4s with The Weird Turn
Pro. Between these four groups, there is more than 43 Power, added to
Discordia's to give the win. Use the NWOs to keep your opponents frustrated, the
uses of other Plots should be semi-obvious.

Of course, this strategy seems a bit rickety, depending on so many alignment
changers, Resources, etc., but in reality by the time your shot at the endgame
rolls around you will most likely have "spare" groups that will allow one or
more components of the Nazi-Wierd-Science structure to be missing while still
giving enough Power for the win. Even if catastrophe strikes, this is a
fundamentally strong Discordia deck which should be primed to garner a regular
Illuminated win... at worst you will get two Weird Science groups under the
Nazis and they will each get +3 Power, greatly increasing the potency of your
Weird arsenal. In this worst-case scenario, you may wish to play Jake Day on the
Nazis themselves to beef up your defenses.

Back to the Deck of the Week.
