INWO Deck: Heretic Magi
Premise
Since the Unlimited rules came out, the Adepts have been a very popular
Illuminati to play, specifically for their special goal: Each magic resource
controlled by the Adpets counts as one group toward the Basic Goal. Combine this
with the ability to spend an Illuminati token each turn to control a resource,
and the fact that you can combine their special goal with a goal card, and the
extreme usefulness of many of the magic resources, and you have a very powerful
opponent. Countering a resource-heavy magic Adepts deck is hard to do,
especially when they start exposing and discarding your best plots, and make you
pay for attacking them with the Ark of the Covenant and Soulburner.

Then I realized the best way to fight fire is with fire, and created this
Anti-Adepts Adepts deck (hence the name: you represent the rival Adepts faction
that seeks to destroy all other Adepts, instead of concentrating on taking over
the world like normal Illuminati). It takes advantage of the Adepts's special
power and the Library at Alexandria to take over your rival's magic groups,
while he's bringing out resources... and when you kill him, all those resources
are yours!

The Deck
Illuminati
Adepts of Hermes

Groups

    Stonehenge x 2
    Cattle Mutilators
    Clone Arrangers
    Comic Books
    Count Dracula
    The Great Pyramid
    IRS
    Rosicrucians
    Reformed Church of Satan
    Templars
    WITCH
    Vampires 

Resources

    The Holy Grail
    The Library at Alexandria x 2
    Xanadu 

Plots

    18 1/2 Minute Gap
    Albino Alligators
    An Offer You Can't Refuse
    The Big Sellout
    Commitment
    Cover of Darkness
    Cover-Up
    Crop Circles x 2
    Early Warning
    Embezzlement
    Forgery
    Harmonica Virgins
    Jake Day x 2
    Media Blitz
    NWO: Dont' Forget to Smash the State
    NWO: Energy Crisis
    NWO: World Hunger
    Sabotage
    Secrets MWNMTK
    Seize the Time!
    The Stars Are Right
    Unlucky 13
    The Weak Link
    The Weird Turn Pro
    Goal: Hail Eris! 

Strategy
First, this deck is designed to be anti-Adepts: if you play this deck and find
no other Adepts player in the game, you'll have a harder time winning than if
you just played a basic resource-takeover Adepts deck. The next several items
assume you are fighting another Adepts deck.

Lead
Lead with Stonehenge. If your opponent has seen this deck before, he will lead
with Stonehenge, too, which is why there are two of them in the deck. Protect
Stonehenge at all costs, because while you have it, his resources don't affect
you, and his magic groups can't attack you, which is extremely useful if all he
has is magic groups! Get out your Holy Grail quickly, using a Crop Circles if
necessary, to protect Stonehenge.

Play
Get out The Library of Alexandria as early as possible: you now have a +11 to
control magic groups from your hand, and a net +16 to take over your rival
Adepts' magic groups! You should, early as possible, use an automatic takeover
to control the Clone Arrangers and IRS. The Clone Arrangers are a powerful
Secret group, and the IRS is also powerful, and lets you draw from your rival
Adepts' deck, which is particularly useful since his plots are tailored to magic
decks anyway. Be careful, though, if another player is playing a Violent
Criminal or Gnomes deck, respectively. The other non-magic group, Comic Books,
has two purposes. The first is, once it is out, you can take over WITCH and the
Reformed Church of Satan cheaply, as well as any enemy group that you want to
play a Jake Day on. The second is that Comic Books is a Media group, so if
someone manages to destroy Stonehenge, you can use their action and the Media
Blitz card to resurrect it.

Plot Strength
The plots are what make this deck strong. Save your Embezzlement for when the
rival Adepts use Crop Circles or the Rosicrucians to select a special plot. Use
An Offer You Can't Refuse after he ends his turn with a lot of plot cards, and
puts the ones he intends to draw next on the top. Don't use The Weak Link +
Cover of Darkness combo on your Adepts rival (unless, of course, he has The
Library at Alexandria), since you'll be getting his resources anyway. Instead,
use it to steal someone's Orbital Mind Control Lasers, or something equally
valuable. The NWO's won't help you directly, but don't hurt you and can really
slow down an opponent's plans, especially if they depend on Government or
Corporate groups.

The Endgame
When you're ready to win, which could be as early as the third or fourth
turn(the earliest that you can eliminate a rival, depending on who went first),
you should have, ideally, either The Big Sellout or Seize the Time! in your hand
(preferably both) and a plot-canceling card (18 1/2 Minute Gap or Secrets
MWNMTK). You should also have The Library at Alexandria in play. The Big Sellout
is preferable to Voodoo economics because it doesn't cost an Illuminati token
and can put an extra one on your Illuminati as well as the rest of your groups.
With the extra tokens from The Big Sellout, you should be able to either control
or destroy all your rival Adepts' groups, and get all his resources. Then just
control Magic groups from your hand at a +11 until you run out of tokens. If
necessary, Seize the Time and try again.

But, what if there aren't any other Adepts player in the game?
First, watch for UFO's: A popular tactic is to play an Adepts deck using the
UFO's (for the extra Illuminati token) and Unmask as the Adepts when you're
ready to win. In this case, you won't get the resources for destroying your
pseudo-rival, but you should still keep him weak, and you should still take his
Magic groups away from him once you have The Library at Alexandria out.

If you are the only one playing a Magic deck, don't worry. Just get the Library
out quickly, and start taking over an extra Magic group or two every turn. Try
to bring out your Secret groups first, and generally play defensively. With
luck, your will be viewed as unthreatening, but still hard to attack, and the
other players will concentrate on each other until you're ready to win.

Substitutions
What if you don't have all those rare cards? Well, some you can substitute and
some you can do without. All of the rare and uncommon groups (Cattle Mutilators,
Comic Books, Count Dracula, The Great Pyramid, IRS, Reformed Church of Satan,
and Templars) are nice, but not vital. The exception is the Comic Books, which
is uncommon, because you need a Media group to play Media Blitz. If you don't
have Comic Books, reasonable substitutes are Junk Mail and Tabloids, since many
Magic groups are secret.

The Holy Grail is very useful to protect Stonehenge. Two Libraries are very
important if the rival Adepts also have one, so you can play forgery to get it
back. Xanadu is common.

18 1/2 Minute Gap can be replaced with Hoax or Secrets. The Big Sellout can be
replaced with Voodoo Economics. Cover of Darkness and The Weak Link are such a
useful combination, keep them in if possible. In fact, if you have more than one
of these, include them! The other rare plots, An Offer You Can't Refuse,
Cover-Up, Embezzlement, NWO: Energy Crisis, Sabotage, The Stars Are Right, and
Unlucky 13 are all very useful, but not vital. Replace them with common plots
like Crop Circles, Harmonica Virgins, Hat Tricks, Stealing the Plans, Early
Warning, and other defensive cards, or add in your favorite disasters and
assassinations.

Deck design by Aaron Curtis.
Back to the Deck of the Week.
