Homicidal Nazi Geniuses from Beyond the Grave of Cthulhu
by Kevin Kennedy

This deck is the epitome of every bad B-horror movie you've ever seen. Evil Nazi
Geniuses secretly build up a plot to destroy the Earth in the most bizarre way
imaginable in order to win the praise of their secret god.

It all began one dark and stormy night with…

Card Data
Illuminati:

    Servants of Cthulhu

Groups:

    Advanced Supersonic Aluminum Nazi Hell Creatures from Beneath the Hollow
Earth
    CIA
    Clone Arrangers
    Cycle Gangs
    Evil Geniuses for a Better Tomorrow
    General Disorder
    South American Nazis
    WITCH

Resources:

    Crystal Skull
    Cyborg Soldiers
    Hitlers Brain
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers
    Weather Satellite x2

Plots:

    Albino Alligators x2
    Annual Convention x2
    Australian Rules x2
    Bribery
    Don't Forget to Smash the State x2
    Flesh-Eating Bacteria
    Forgery
    Giant Kudzu
    Hail Eris!
    Messiah
    More Slack!
    New Blood
    …Or Kill Me!
    Rain of Frogs x3
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know x2
    Sorry, Wrong Number x2
    Terrorist Nuke x3
    Truck Bomb
    World Hunger x2

Strategy
Beginning

    The generic lead for this deck is the Clone Arrangers. That can change - it
all depends on the circumstances. If you think that you can bounce a CIA and
then maybe follow up with the Clone Arrangers then by all means go for it.
However Clone Arrangers is probably your best choice. The important thing to
keep in mind is that your lead should be a power group that can defend your
power structure. CIA is a good backup if the Clone Arrangers fail, South
American Nazis and the Nazi Hell Creatures are you backups failing the CIA. If
anyone leads with the South American Nazis prepare for war as it is probably
likely that you're going to be competing for groups with them.

    They were approached by a lone mad scientist/cabal of extremist feminist
witches/group of demented science fair judges with a vile plan for gaining the
favor of a certain elder god.

    In your early game you want to play conservatively and defensively. Make an
automatic takeover and spend an Illuminati token to bring out a resource. If
you've got the CIA or Clone Arrangers then you want to bring out General
Disorder or WITCH off of your Illuminati. If you've got South American Nazis or
you have both South American Nazis and Evil Geniuses for a Better Tomorrow then
you want to ATO the South American Nazis and attack to control the Evil Geniuses
(with the South American Nazis of course). If you bring out General Disorder you
want to play New Blood and Messiah on him as quickly as possible.

    As resources go you want to take out the Crystal Skull as soon as possible.
If there is an Adepts of Hermes player in the game you may want to wait until
they bring out and use Forgery to steal it. Otherwise bring out the other
resources as you see fit, with the exception of Hitler's Brain, which you want
to bring out in the end game.

    They began working on their evil plans in a secret laboratory beneath the
earth…

Midgame

    During the midgame, your focus turns to helping the other players bring down
those early leaders like Gnomes, Bavaria, Shangri La or the Network. You want to
select cards that can best help you do this like Australian Rules. The most
important aspect of midgame is getting your opponents to attack each other.

    By midgame (after turn two) you should have a relatively small power
structure (the power structure for this deck should remain fairly small for most
of the game), meaning that you don't look like you're anywhere close to any type
of victory condition. You'll also be pretty well defended, so no worries there.

    At about this point I usually ATO a Weather Satellite and spend an
Illuminati action to bring out the other. If I have the Evil Geniuses, I use
their action to bring out the OMCLs, if I haven't brought them out already. This
sets you up for your endgame and also contributes to the image of you not being
that much of a threat (victory-wise at least) and why on earth would someone
bring out two weather satellites anyway? They only give you a relatively small
bonus to destroy places with the exception of…

    OH MY GOD! Frogs! Frogs everywhere!

    I like to pull this out on another opponent's turn, preferably after they've
declared victory. That place, that has until now been left unmolested, that
they've got a group or two hanging off of gets hit by this deck secret weapon:
Rain of Frogs. The unlimited, and current version, of Weather Satellite has the
ability to give +10 to three disasters: Hurricane, Tornado, and Rain of Frogs.
Hurricane only devastates and can only hit coastal places and it's pretty good
for what it does. Tornado is useless especially considering Volcano does the
same thing better under any conditions. But I want to destroy, and with two
Weather Satellites, Rain of Frogs becomes a 24 power (to destroy, 30 to
devastate) disaster (without any other bonuses) that can hit anywhere, anytime,
without warning. Mwu Ha Ha!

    And it rained frogs for many days and many nights and then the Giant Kudzu
hit and then many places were stricken with a Fleshing Eating plague and certain
unfortunate people found themselves in the midst of it all as disaster struck
and brother fought brother and many, many, many people died.

Endgame

    In the endgame, about the fourth or fifth turn, your evil plan revealed, you
go on a rampage. You really want to set up for this as best a run as possible.
ATO the Cycle Gangs. Use your Illuminati token to bring out Hitler's Brain. Make
your Cyborg Soldiered Clone Arrangers or Nazi Hell Creatures Weird with the
OMCLs. More Slack! and play Sorry, Wrong Number on an unfortunate victim. Then
unleash a Rain of Frogs on a place, follow up with an Annual Convention aided by
General Disorder or the now Weird Clone Arrangers or WITCH or the Evil Geniuses
and repeat. If you have both Hitler's Brain and Australian Rules in play, you
will be drawing three plot cards everytime you destroy a group so attack,
attack, attack.

    And amidst the chaos and confusion caused by all this destruction a
tentacled being was pleased and a goddess smiled.

    As you draw all the plot cards you will be getting from your attacks, be
sure to draw Hail Eris just as your opponents are recovering from the massive
wake of destruction that had ensued. They'll count up the number of groups
you've actually destroyed (which is usually four or five but can be more) and
sigh a breath of release because they realize your still about two groups away
from your goal. Surprise them with Hail Eris. WITCH, General Disorder, and the
Evil Genius will all count double towards this goal, and so will the Clone
Arrangers if you've used the OMCLs on them and chances are your rivals won't
even have noticed.

    But as you know from Bad B-Horror movies the bad guys don't always win.

Potential Problems

    Naturally, not every attack you make will succeed. That isn't a problem -
there are more than enough disasters and potential attacks in this deck to make
up for that and there's one Bribery for insurance purpose. What is a problem,
though, is what happens if you lose Hail Eris! Careful plot management will keep
Hail Eris out of your hand until you need it and away from places where you can
accidentally discard it or one of your rivals can steal it. Still Hail Eris will
count as at least two of your groups needed for victory so you might want to
include another copy.

    Shangri La can make your game particularly unenjoyable. You can plow past
their defenses most of the time but Peace in our Time and A Chicken in Every Pot
are not pleasant NWOs to be playing under. For this reason you may want to hold
your World Hunger back to replace a Chicken in Every Pot. Furthermore, if they
play the Red Cross, that is an ideal target for a Truck Bomb or Annual
Convention as their defensive bonus from attacks does not apply to Instants.

    Losing the Weather Satellites can be a problem; however, they aren't likely
to be a target unless someone has seen this deck before or you've played a Rain
of Frogs. They can't be destroyed while you're playing a Rain of Frogs, so
you're guaranteed at least one chance at place destruction before you lose them.
(This deck can get by with only actually destroying two groups.)

    Besides, your rivals will be more likely to target their resource destroyers
at things like PMM, Big Prawn, or even your OMCLs (which you can work without).
Loss of more than one of your Weird groups can hurt if you don't have the OMCLs.
General Disorder however is hard to lose. The Evil Geniuses are almost intended
as a lighting rod and I've actually never played a game where I even got them.
If you play properly it should be fairly easy to protect WITCH. Still as a
contingency plan you may want to save the New Blood for the Cycle Gangs.

    The biggest problem you can encounter is nobody's playing with places. This
is rare, very rare to say the least, and you're going to have a much more
difficult time, but never fear. Simply use your Crystal Skull to avoid your
disasters and destroy two or three groups the normal way. You'll have to work
for it but you'll still be able to pull of a win if you're lucky.

    Another problem, that I haven't encountered and don't really know how to
address is competing for groups with a rival. In the case of the Clone Arrangers
or CIA this isn't such a big deal but if it comes to General Disorder or the
South American Nazis, chances are taking those groups from that rival will
unfortunately deter you from making attacks on more powerful players who are
closer to victory. Fortunately your most important resources, your Weather
Satellites, are not something you're going to have to compete for.

    Another bone of content is Messiah. You can live without making General
Disorder the Messiah. Even better, you can use the CIA to assassinate the
newly-found Messiah and have General Disorder take his place. Wouldn't that fit
perfectly into a bad B-horror movie?

    Of course there is always the possibility of someone springing a nasty
surprise victory on you but heh, that's Illuminati for you.

Variants/Substitutions

    If you want to make changes to the deck here are some options: Clone
Arrangers or the CIA can easily be replaced by some other Violent group with a
power of six or more. That's your call.

    If you want to make the deck even more Nazi, the Thule Group can be added,
but how you take advantage of their special ability is up to you. I tried
working them in; I didn't like it.

Back to Deck of the Week
