I Am Not Left-Handed!

by Steve Hatherley

This deck is designed around the fact that using Ross Perot and the Bermuda
Triangle's special ability you can completely change the political leanings of
your power structure. It starts out looking like a standard Power to the People
Liberal deck but can switch to Let Them Eat Cake in a flash.

The name comes from The Princess Bride, from the wonderful sword-fight scene in
which Inigo Montoya says 'I know something you don't know.' 'What is that?' 'I
am not left-handed.' The name also suits particularly well because of the
traditional associations of 'left' = liberal, 'right' = conservative.

Some resemblance to Ralph Melton's "Soylent Green" deck may be apparent - but
that's mainly because that deck inspired me to put this deck (which I have had
in the back of my mind for ages) down onto paper.

By the way, Christopher Burke notes that both Bill Clinton and Ross Perot are
left-handed. Scary, eh?
Illuminati

    Bermuda Triangle 

Group Cards

    Bill Clinton
    California
    Dittoheads
    Druids
    Finland
    France
    Fred Birch Society
    Gay Activists
    Rosicruicians
    Ross Perot
    Teddy Kennedy
    Center for Weird Studies
    Clipper Chip 

Plot Cards

    Alien Abduction x2
    Are We Having Fun Yet?
    Atomic Monster
    Benefit Concert x2
    Crop Circles x2
    Fundie Money
    Good Polls x2
    March on Washington
    Martial Law
    Nuclear Accident
    Rewriting History
    Savings and Loan Scam x2
    The Second Bullet
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know x2
    Sniper
    Talisman of Ahrimanes
    Tidal Wave
    Goal: Let Them Eat Cake! x2
    Goal: Power to the People
    NWO: Fear and Loathing
    NWO: Military-Industrial Complex
    NWO: Political Correctness x3 

The Beginning

Yor lead group should be Bill Clinton, for his massive bonus to take over
Government groups. If you bounce on this then your best bet is probably Teddy
Kennedy. Good early groups include the Rosicruicans (get some
disaster/assassination) protection, Teddy Kennedy (for his protection to Liberal
puppets). The Center for Weird Studies is especially useful - use it to reload
Bill and keep grabbing groups.

You can afford to take over the CfWS with your Illuminati action, because you
can reload it straight away.

Good early groups:

    Bill Clinton
    Teddy Kennedy
    Rosicrucians
    France
    Center for Weird Studies 

The Midgame

You need to start destroying groups in the midgame. Ideally, you want to destroy
Liberal groups. If you can do this without looking too suspicious (by destroying
annoying groups, such as the Phone Phreaks or Canada) then this is good. You
don't want your opponents to suspect that you are deliberately targeting Liberal
groups. And you can always bank on the fact that you have Rewriting History - or
use that as misdirection...

Don't get too greedy. It's easy to get carried away with Bill. You don't need
*too* many groups to win with, so don't become a target. Your best defense is
Good Polls - your power structure is largely Liberal.

Here's how the cards work in the midgame.

Bermuda Triangle
    Essential, obviously, but don't forget to rearrange your power structure.
Even if it means just switching everything by 180 degrees, do it. Your rivals
will pretty soon get fed up of watching. 
Bill Clinton
    Bill has huge direct control bonuses for California, Finland, France and
Teddy Kennedy. A key group. 
California
    Somewhere to destroy. Not very key, but useful for throwing the Atomic
Monster at and easy to take over. 
Dittoheads
    A key group. Their ability of taking their master's Alignment is essential.
Give them to Bill Clinton if possible - he has a free side. Don't waste a
control arrow on them. 
Druids
    The Druids serve a couple of purposes. First they can be used to defend a
place against disasters, second they help power Crop Circles. 
Finland
    Not key, but easy to take over. Also easy to flatten with a Tidal Wave
should you need to. 
France
    France's ability to defend any Liberal group as a free move makes it a key
group in this deck. And you can always flatten it with a Tidal Wave. 
Fred Birch Society
    A key group in the endgame, but it needs to be hidden until then. Do not
show this card to anyone! 
Gay Activists
    Useful for switching alignments prior to making an attack to destroy. Also
useful in the endgame. 
Rosicrucians
    Key group - lets you get your cards out early. If someone else gets the
Rosicrucians out then work to destroy them. 
Ross Perot
    Absolutely essential - but not until the endgame. You're going to use Alien
Abduction to take over Ross. But before that don't let anyone see him! 
Teddy Kennedy
    Fairly key. If you can protect Teddy, he can protect your Liberal groups. 
Center for Weird Studies
    Useful for reloading Bill Clinton if you want to grab another card from your
hand. Don't waste your free automatic takeover on this card. Spend your
Illuminati action and then, if neccessary, reload it straight away. 

Through the midgame you should be working to destroy two or three Liberal groups
(although see above about being too obvious). You also want to get the Fred
Birch Society into your hand, along with Ross Perot. The only Plots you need are
Alien Abduction and Let Them Eat Cake.
The Endgame

The endgame is really simple. You make an ATO of the Fred Birch Society, and
then play Ross Perot. Do anything else you feel neccessary to secure your win.
At the end of your Main Phase you reorganise so that Ross Perot controls two
previously-Liberal groups. Ideally one of them will be a Personality with the
Dittoheads (who then also become Conservative). That's 6 Conservative groups -
which with the Liberal groups you've destroyed during the midgame means a win
with Let Them Eat Cake. Hurrah!
What to Watch For

This deck really suffers if someone else plays either Ross Perot or the Fred
Birch Society. Faced with this dilemma your best option might be to go for Power
to the People or the special goal.

Newt Gingrich might cause your Liberal groups some problem. If you can't
negotiate with his owner, kill him. Similarly the Feminists might be problematic
- so destroy them (destroyed Liberal groups are good for you, anyway).

The OMCLs could ruin your bid for victory. The deck does not have a direct way
of dealing with them, so guile and deception may be neccessary. Alternatively
make sure you have enough destroyed groups that you can afford to lose a
Conservative group (or two).

NWO: World Hunger could cost several action tokens and a lot of power. Be
prepared to use Secrets on it, or hold NWO: Fear and Loathing back just for the
occasion.

Optional cards I had considered:

Flesh Eating Bacteria
    If you are lucky enough to have surplus FEBs, you can use one instead of
Tidal Wave. (Nuclear Accident is worth keeping as it affects the pesky NPCs as
well.) 
Phone Phreaks
    Useful to move a rival's group prior to making an attack to destroy. Gets
rid of those pesky Illuminati closeness bonuses as well. As they are Liberal
they are pretty easy to take over, but they can make you a target. 
W.I.T.C.H.
    A useful replacement for the Druids. They are not as useful at protecting
against Disasters, but if you roll as many 11s and 12s as I do, you may want to
include them. 
Orbital Mind Control Lasers
    My original version had OMCLs instead of a Clipper Chip, but given the
difficulty of keeping hold of them, I dropped the OMCLs. If you think you can
hold them, good for you. 

Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: April 22, 1997

Last modified: April 22, 1997
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
