Intergalactic Atomic Arousal
by Marc Sherman

[Webmaster's Note: Due to recent changes in the wording of the Blinded by
Science card, the strategy for this deck may work differently than originally
intended. INWO's Assistant Netrep Steve Brinich puts it in perfect words:

"The point of BbS in this deck is to worry and irritate rivals into attacking,
which is less effective with the errata but can still be done by adding a
Power-booster or two (Self-Esteem is the obvious first choice, since it works
for either the Int'l Weather Org or Phone Phreaks). Even if BbS still isn't a
viable Goal, boosting a weak Science Group to 6 should make people think you're
going for it."

Good luck. - SCM 8/28/2000 ]

Card Data
Illuminati:

    UFOs

Groups:

    AMA
    FBI
    International Weather Organization
    MWOWM
    Newt Gingrich
    Nuclear Power Companies
    Orbit One
    Phone Company
    Phone Phreaks
    Japan

Resources:

    The Library at Alexandria
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers
    Perpetual Motion Machine

Plots:

    Attitude Mutation
    Cold Fusion x2
    Computer Virus
    Cover of Darkness
    Crop Circles
    Early Warning
    Forgery
    Giant Kudzu
    Hoax
    Infobahn x2
    Liberal Agenda
    Martial Law
    Rewriting History
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know x2
    Seize the Time
    Slush Fund x2
    Sufficiently Advanced Technology
    The Weak Link
    Goal: Arise! X2
    Goal: Blinded by Science
    Goal: Let Them Eat Cake!
    NWO Blue: Chicken in Every Pot
    NWO Red: Australian Rules
    NWO Yellow: Anti-Trust Legislation x2
    NWO Yellow: Bigger Business

Strategy
Introduction

    The problem with Arise! Is that unless you have some trick like the CDC in
your deck to let you credit your own kills to someone else, your fate is in the
hands of your rivals. You could cut a deal with a rival to attack your last
group to control for a shared victory, but that kind of victory is almost as
cheesy as Blinded By Science. So how can you get your rivals to really want to
take you out? Blinded By Science, of course!

    This deck was inspired by an offhand comment in Steve Hatherley's recent
Pyramid article, Zen and the Art of Power Structure Maintenance. Steve talks
about how the Yellow NOW Antitrust Legislation is the only card in the game that
lets you reorganize your power structure during an attack, and concludes with "A
truly Illuminated (if risky) trick is to combine a mid-attack reorganization
with the Arise! Goal . . ." This lets us turn any attack against a seemingly
well defended and broadly distributed power structure into an attack that will
remove all of our groups, after our rivals have poured all their tokens into it.

    So the key is to find a deck that will piss off enough people to force your
rivals to gang up on you. Most people will probably agree with me that 2 of the
most annoying cards in the game are Blinded by Science, and the Nuclear Power
Companies. Hang the Perpetual Motion Machine off the NPCs, and you might as well
paint a big red target on your ass. Do so in a group deck containing all Science
groups (except for Japan, whose slurp bonus vs. Science groups makes it just as
good), and you're holding the gun steady for your rivals while they pull the
trigger.

    I started with a previous Deck of the Week that contained all of these
elements, Keith Page's Blinded by Cake. This is a UFOs deck with 4 ways to win;
Blinded By Science, Let Them Eat Cake, Unmasking as Shangri-La, and Kill for
Peace! The UFOs were the obvious choice for my deck, since I need a Blinded By
Science in hand to annoy my rivals enough to attack me. In the original Blinded
by Cake deck, the only groups that weren't Science were peaceful, so those were
the obvious candidates for trimming; I cut out the peaceful groups (except for
Japan and the A.M.A., both of which were still very useful to me), and the two
ways of winning that relied on peace. I also took Don Fnordlioni's advice in the
Blinded by Cake write-up, and replaced the Power to 6 plots with some generally
useful plots, including an Early Warning for disaster defense, and some resource
control plots to protect my popular resources with, and harass my rivals.

Lead

    At the start of the game, you want to grow a little too fast, so lead with
Japan to slurp up some Science groups. If Japan bounces, the A.M.A. or the Phone
Phreaks are a good second choice, since half of your groups are Computer. If
these bounce as well, you've got a lot of overlap, which is good; it means that
at least one rival already has a built in reason to attack you. Take a look at
your other rival's leads, and decide from there.

    Early in the game, you want to straddle the line of acceptability. Grow a
little too fast. Play isolationist. Make a big deal about slurping up a Science
group off of Japan with a target roll of 35 or less. Defend yourself against
attacks or interference with your copious +10 cards. If there's a rival against
whom you have a lot of effective offense, that's the rival you want to cut a
deal with early on for a shared victory; in my play-test game, there was a
Liberal Science deck, against whom the A.M.A./Newt Gingrich combo was going to
be a devastating stab in the back, so I made fast friends with him.

Midgame

    There isn't much of a midgame here; just keep doing what you've been doing
from the start. The key here is to slowly start annoying everyone more and more.
The OMCLs are always good for a bit of paranoia. Use the Phone Company's and the
Phone Phreaks' special abilities to harass your rivals, and use MWOWM to suck up
any useful plots that fall. Bring out the NPCs, and link the Perpetual Motion
Machine to them. Protect the PMM if you can; in my play-test game, I lost the
PMM to a Forgery (to the Church of the SubGenius, no less!), and took it back on
the next turn with the Weak Link/Cover of Darkness combo. Don't actually use the
NPCs yet against your rivals; hold it in defense until you're ready to win.

Endgame

    The endgame can work in a couple of different ways. Your end game can't
begin until you've got both Arise! and Antitrust Legislation in hand, of course.
That's already two plots; since you're most likely to be attacked by a rival on
their turn, not your own, the other three plots in your hand had better all be
useful to the end run, such as +10's (for your own groups to aid the attack
against you!), plot cancellers, or the Computer Virus to fiddle with the roll
against you.

    Encouraging your rivals to attack you should be easy. Leave a group somewhat
vulnerable. There are a bunch of useful cards in your deck to help here. If
you've got Australian Rules and Seize the Time, take advantage and stab that
ally you made at the start of the game! Spend all your tokens on attacks, and
then Seize the Time. This will leave you without Illuminati tokens, and somewhat
vulnerable.

    It's important that you don't try for the win when a rival attack's you to
control; otherwise, you'll end up sharing victory with that rival. The NPCs
(particularly with the Perpetual Motion Machine attached) should be offensive
enough to everyone that your rivals will agree that it should be destroyed, not
just taken away from you.

    If you get really lucky, you can try to win on your own turn. This can be a
real help, because you can have many more than five plots in hand. To do so,
you've got to incite your rivals to play a disaster on Japan or an Assassination
on Newt Gingrich, and the best way to do that is to declare victory with Blinded
by Science!

    When the attack finally comes, play it carefully. Use a token in your own
defense, if you need to, to suck out more of your rivals into helping attack
you. If Australian Rules is still in play, everyone should be willing to throw
at least one token onto the fire. Once the attack looks destined to succeed, you
might as well make the end run; start aiding the attack with your own groups,
and throw in all the +10s that you can. Play Antitrust Legislation to reorganize
your power structure, hanging every other group off of the group that's under
attack. Use the NPCs to cancel any defensive aid your group may receive. And
pray.

Potential Problems

    If Antitrust Legislation is canceled, and you can't cancel the canceller,
you might be in trouble. You'll probably lose the group under attack, but you'll
still have the rest of your power structure. Little do your rivals know, there's
a second Arise!/AtL combo in your deck! Hang on to your exposed Arise! for
defense until you draw the second; when you do, discard the first in disgust,
complaining that you can't possibly hope to win this game with only four live
plots in your hand. Wait patiently for the second Antitrust Legislation, and try
again!

    If your rivals let the Antitrust Legislation go through, but are able to
foil the attack against your root group, you're in big trouble. You're probably
all out of tokens, and every group you own is hanging off a single group. Expose
Arise!, so that your rivals can't take it away from you; as long as you hold
Arise!, you know they can't knock you out of the game. You'll probably lose a
lot of groups over the next few players' turns, though, so just bide your time,
and keep drawing plots until you get that second Antitrust Legislation to try
again.

    Don't forget your other two goals. This deck has two other solid victory
shots, though Blinded By Science is easy to spot and included more as bait for
the Arise! win than as a goal in its own right. You're more likely to take out
your own Liberals, and sneak in a Let Them Eat Cake win.

Back to Deck of the Week
