1. Anarchists of Hermes

You are an Adept of Hermes, part of an anarchistic branch of the ancient
organization.

Deck Listing

Illuminati
   Adepts of Hermes

Groups
   C.I.A.
   Cattle Mutilators 
   Comic Books 
   Count Dracula 
   Evil Geniuses for a Better Tomorrow 
   Hackers 
   Psychiatrists 
   Reformed Church of Satan 
   S.M.O.F. 
   South American Nazis 
   W.I.T.C.H.
   Book of Kells 
   The Library at Alexandria 
   Necronomicon 
   Soulburner
   Wargamers 

Plots
   18 1/2-Minute Gap 
   Angst 
   Albino Alligators 
   Annual Convention 
   Celebrity Spokesman 
   Charismatic Leader 
   Computer Virus 
   Cover of Darkness 
   Crop Circles 
   Full Moon 
   Harmonica Virgins 
   Hat Trick 
   Hex 
   Jake Day 
   Let's Get Organized 
   Mutual Betrayal 
   New Blood 
   Plague of Demons 
   Terrorist Nuke 
   The Stars are Right 
   The Weak Link 
   The Weird Turn Pro 
   Unlucky 13 
   Withering Curse 
   Goal: Up Against the Wall 
   NWO: Don't Forget to Smash the State 
   NWO: Solidarity 
   NWO: World Hunger 

Strategy

Like all of your rivals, you have a big bonus to control, so even though none of
you have a doubler goal, the basic goal should be within reach. Should this fail
you each have a plan B that will allow you to win with pretty few groups
controlled. You have +6 to control magic groups, which can be boosted to +11
with Library at Alexandria. This bonus is actually less than your rivals, but
don't worry, you have the added speed of letting your magic resources count as
controlled groups. The control bonus only applies to 4 groups, but you have +5
to control 3 other groups, and SMOF will give a further +2 against most of your
group deck.

Comic Books is a good lead, because it has a good shot at taking over your weird
magic groups and weird violent groups. C.I.A. can also be used as a lead,
because of it's sheer power. Either way, boost the power of Comic Books when you
can, it will serve you well. Cattle Mutilators, Psychiatrists and Wargamers work
very well together as plot killers, but don't bring out all of these low power
groups without any back-up. South American Nazis can both control and beef up
Evil Geniuses for a Better Tomorrow.

Book of Kells and Necronomicon can be used on the same magic group to good
effect, especially if that group has received an increase in power. Just
remember that linking your magic resources to a group also means that you run
the risk of having them destroyed along with that group. Finally, the Soulburner
can be taken over by the Evil Geniuses special ability, perhaps securing an easy
take over of that all important 11th group - unless ofcourse you need it earlier
on.

As for plots Cover of Darkness can be used to steal a rivals magic resource that
you've just destroyed with Hex. Computer Virus (and W.I.TC.H.) can protect the
user of the Necronomicon, but can also affect a rivals suicide squad, perhaps
persuading him to point it elsewhere? (In which case a Cover of Darkness might
again be useful - repeat with Hat Trick). Let's Get Organized is best used on
Comic Books. Jake Day can be used on Count Dracula, but can also be used for a
predatorial attack, in which case S.M.O.F. can soften up your target first.
Annual Convention, Plague of Demons and Withering Curse can all be boosted by
magic action, so increasing the power of a single magic group into the two-digit
range may prove very worthwhile when attempting to achieve victory by Up Against
the Wall. Solidarity is nice because Comic Books can ignore it, while the
remaining two NWOs will seriously decrease the power of your rivals. Playing
these at the right time may prove instrumental to your victory.

Remember, you might achieve a shared victory, (most likely with Shangri-La), by
trading 1 group for 2 magic resources, bringing you both closer to the basic
goal.