A really good INWO game can go on for quite a long time. When such a long games
end in a crescendo of action and desperate victory bids, and one player finally
outwits his rivals, then there are smiles even on the faces of the unfortunate
losers. But should such a game ends in a stalemate, the experience is somewhat
less satisfying. These 4 decks were designed with the intent that they would
never run out of steam or options. Each has a massive slurp bonus, and in case
this obvious scheme is foiled, each has a contingency plan that can be completed
even when half of their power structure has been blown away. Finally, all of
them have potential for a shared victory.

Deck Construction

The decks are built assuming four players, automatic takeovers, and a basic goal
of eleven groups.

When deciding on which Illuminatis to use, I avoided the ones with doubler
goals. This is because I like big power structures, and all the possibilities
that come with them. For the same reason, I'm not using doubler goal cards
either. With the unique scenario of knowing the contents of all 4 decks, I chose
Bermuda and Shangri-La, then Adepts for their built-in +6 to control magic
groups, and finally UFOs, because the remaining choices simply looked too big
compared to the illuminatis that I had settled on.

Deck Description

Each deck description follows a standard format. It opens with a single sentence
describing your little corner of the conspiracy. This is followed by the card
lists - Illuminati, Groups, and Plots. The Strategy section describes the feel
of the deck in game terms, points out important card combinations or foes, and
suggests possible leads. Preferably, each player should have a print-out of his
deck description and deck list available to him before the game begins.

General Guidelines

The strategy sections describe unique and interesting features of each deck, but
most of the advice given in The INWO Book also applies. Make sure you also check
the latest errata and rules changes at http://www.sjgames.com/inwo/errata/.

Flexibility is vital. There is no guarantee that you will get the cards you
really want, so make the best of what you do get.

At the end of this document you'll find a card listing of all of the cards in
this deck set, sorted by card type, and within that sorted alphabetically. This
should make it easier to construct the decks from a One With Everything set.
