4. Space Vampires

You are an elusive UFO-naut, a devious space vampire to be precise.

Deck Listing

Illuminati
   UFOs

Groups
   A.M.A. 
   Clone Arrangers 
   Dan Quayle 
   Empty Vee 
   George Bush 
   Margaret Thatcher 
   Nancy Reagan 
   Professional Sports 
   Punk Rockers 
   Ronald Reagan 
   Ross Perot 
   Vampires 
   Crystal Skull 
   Flying Saucer 
   Perpetual Motion Machine 

Plots
   Atomic Monster 
   Bodyguard 
   Car Bomb 
   Censorship 
   Citizenship Award 
   Counterspell 
   Giant Kudzu 
   Good Polls 
   Grassroot Support 
   Hidden Influence 
   Just Say No 
   Logic Bomb 
   March on Washington 
   Mass Murder 
   Miracle Diet Plan 
   Read My Lips 
   Scandal
   Servants of Cthulhu  
   Slush Fund 
   Straighten Up 
   Sweeping Reforms 
   Unmasked! 
   Volcano 
   Voodoo Economics 
   Goal: Fratricide 
   Goal: Let Them Eat Cake 
   NWO: Bigger Business 
   NWO: Fear and Loathing 
   NWO: Law and Order 

Strategy

Like all of your rivals, you have a big bonus to control, so even though none of
you have a doubler goal, the basic goal should be within reach. Should this fail
you each have a plan B that will allow you to win with pretty few groups
controlled. Your control bonus will take a little longer to set up than that of
your rivals, but once ready, it is huge. Once everything is in place, the
vampires will have a staggering +20 to control your straight conservative
personalities.

Clone Arrangers is probably your best all round lead, but if you happen to have
Straighten up on your starting hand, lead with the Vampires instead. Your first
objectives are to get Professional Sports, Clone Arrangers and Vampires into
play, and to make the Vampires straight. If you don't have Straighten Up, you
can make the Vampires a puppet of Ross Perot, but this will probably mean that
he won't become a Vampire - in which case he needs to be protected by the Flying
Saucer, and should perhaps be made the Professional Sports commentator too.

Once you've accomplished this, you should be able to bring your personalities
into play very quickly. With the right timing, you could grab them all in a turn
or two. Remember that any personality taken over by the vampires will be
unkillable, except by magic. Any non-vampires in your power structure can be
recreated by the Clone Arrangers if somebody manages to kill them. As for the
remaining groups, A.M.A. is good for protecting the Clone Arrangers, if placed
as their puppet, while Empty Vee, (preferably a puppet of Ross Perot), will
increase the power of your personalities.

If you fail to slurp your way to victory, push may very well come to shove
between you and the Bermuda player. He may have more power than you, but you
have a secret weapon: The Punk Rockers. Placed as a puppet of Ross Perot they
will be ideal for starting an attack against him, and will make him practically
unable to defend the target. Even so, you may find it hard to accomplish your
Let Them Eat Cake goal - in which case you should just shoot up any viable
targets, and eventually unmask as the Servants of Cthulhu. Unmask too early, and
your rivals will surely put an and to your destruction spree, but on the other
hand, Cthulhus bonus to destroy may be hard to do without.

If you're all thwarted in reaching the basic goal, things might very well
degenerate into a shooting gallery. In this case, you might actually pull off a
Fratricide. Other noteworthy plots include Censorship, which can be used both
for controlling and destroying, Hidden Influence, which is ideal for playing on
the Clone Arrangers, and Straighten Up, which in case you didn't use it early
on, can make a rivals group easier to steal. Look out for the NWO Don't Forget
to Smash the State. You have two yellow NWOs yourself, and though it may be
tempting to play them for that instant power increase, it might be better to
hang on to them just to make sure that you have the means to remove Don't Forget
to Smash the State.

Finally, remember that if you do unmask as Cthulhu, perhaps someone might be
interested in helping you get rid of the other two rivals - once you've given
him your Fratricide
goal.