3. World Peace

You are an agent of Shangri-La, ensuring world peace by taking over the entire
planet.

Deck Listing

Illuminati
   Shangri-La

Groups
   Bill Clinton 
   China 
   England 
   Finland 
   France 
   Gay Activists 
   Israel 
   Japan 
   NATO 
   Russia 
   United Nations 
   Vatican City 
   Ark of the Covenant 
   Rogue Boomer 
   The Holy Grail 

Plots
   Air Magic 
   Are We Having Fun Yet? 
   Assertiveness Training 
   Deasil Engine 
   Dictatorship 
   Early Warning 
   Emergency Powers 
   Freaking the Mundanes 
   Gremlins 
   Kinder and Gentler 
   Martial Law 
   Martyrs 
   Murphy's Law 
   Nobel Peace Prize 
   Reorganization 
   Revolution! 
   Savings & Loan Scam 
   Senate Investigating Committee 
   Sniper 
   Sweepstakes Prize 
   Talisman of Ahrimanes 
   The Auditor from Hell 
   Volunteer Aid 
   World Cup Victory 
   Goal: Kill for Peace 
   NWO: Chicken in Every Pot 
   NWO: Energy Crisis 
   NWO: Military Industrial Complex 
   NWO: Peace in Our Time 

Strategy

Like all of your rivals, you have a big bonus to control, so even though none of
you have a doubler goal, the basic goal should be within reach. Should this fail
you each have a plan B that will allow you to win with pretty few groups
controlled. With United Nations, NATO a Rogue Boomer and the matching alignment,
you can achieve an astounding +19 bonus to control all your government nations.
While this is the biggest slurp bonus in the game, which also applies to the
most groups, you do have the problem of losing tokens (and possibly groups) to
your rivals disasters.

Bill Clinton, NATO and United Nations all make good leads, though United Nations
is probably best saved till later, because it isn't easy to protect. NATO is
probably your best bet, since it's bonus applies to all your attacks, whereas
Bills just applies to his own. Frances ability to protect liberal groups may
help keep United Nations alive, just remember to boost their power as much as
possible (perhaps with a Dictatorship). China should not be made a direct puppet
of your illuminati, as it's defense against disasters will help strengthen one
arm of your power structure. The Vatican should only be used for achieving the
basic goal in an emergency, as it is hard to protect once in play. It is better
used as a surprise increase in peaceful power, if you are going for the
Shangri-La special goal.
Protect Japan with the Holy Grail - you do not want to lose Japan!

If your initial slurp fails, you may pull off a surprise Shangri-La special win.
This, and only this, is what the Gay Activists are for. If there is a good
amount of peaceful power in play, ATO the Gays (possible backed up by a Freaking
the Mundanes), and reverse the alignment of the 2 biggest violent groups you can
find. The Messiah, or the Necronomicon on a violent magic group, make excellent
targets for this. Kinder and Gentler will also help you pull this off.

Since you may very well be forced to rely on this back-up goal, remember to
innocently help protect your rivals peaceful groups. Air Magic, Early Warning,
Volunteer Aid and Talisman of Ahrimanes may all be used to protect such groups
from instant attacks. Also, trading your Nobel Peace Prize to someone else may
end up helping yourself. Alternatively, you may try to Kill for Peace.
Assertiveness Training will provide you with a target, preferably a personality,
as this is the only way you can use your Sniper, short of trading it to someone
else. There will be plenty of violent groups around, but if the pickings are
slim, you might destroy some of your own groups. This seppuku option can be
augmented by use of your own Ark of the Covenant, or if someone else plays World
War 3, your violent nations can wipe out each other. As for the NWOs, World
Hunger and Don't Forget to Smash the State will cripple you. You've got 2 blue
NWOs for removing World Hunger, while Don't Forget to Smash the State can be
countered with Chicken in Every Pot, and besides, you won't be alone in wanting
Don't Forget to Smash the State removed from play.

Remember that when going for the Shangri-La win, you don't really need to
control more than 1 group yourself, so maybe a shared victory is an option. You
might also cut a deal with Bermuda, since you have the ability to alter a lot of
alignments for (or against)
him.