2. Deep Green Sea

You serve the Bermuda Triangle, while trying to stay conscious of the
environment.

Deck Listing

Illuminati
   The Bermuda Triangle

Groups
   Al Gore 
   Anti-Nuclear Activists 
   Big Media 
   Black Activists 
   CFL-AIO 
   California 
   Canada 
   Feminists 
   Moral Minority 
   Princess Di 
   Saturday Morning Cartoons 
   Semiconscious Liberation Army 
   Underground Newspapers 
   Midas Mill 
   Suicide Squad

Plots
   Agent in Place 
   Backlash 
   Benefit Concert 
   Blitzkrieg 
   Blood, Toil, Tears and Sweat 
   Corruption 
   Eat the Rich! 
   Epidemic 
   Exposed! 
   Head in a Jar 
   Let's Get REALLY Organized 
   Liberal Agenda 
   Messiah 
   Mob Influence 
   Power Corrupts 
   Privatization 
   Privileged Attack 
   Pulitzer Prize 
   Resistance is Useless! 
   Save the Whales 
   Seize the Time! 
   Self-Esteem 
   Stealing the Plans 
   The Big Sellout 
   Tidal Wave 
   Goal: The Hand of Madness 
   NWO: A Thousand Points of Light 
   NWO: Political Correctness 
   NWO: World War Three 

Strategy

Like all of your rivals, you have a big bonus to control, so even though none of
you have a doubler goal, the basic goal should be within reach. Should this fail
you each have a plan B that will allow you to win with pretty few groups
controlled. You can quickly attain a +5 to control liberal groups (+9 if you
count the alignment bonus), and a further +4 to control green groups is within
reach. Two of these green groups even have a huge bonus to control the remaining
ones, and you can keep their control arrows open be using Bermudas ability to
reorganize for free.

Lead with Feminists, Canada or Al Gore, depending on your plot hand, in order to
hit the ground running. Remember that you only have 5 green groups, so you may
want to save some for that last burst of speed towards the basic goal. A basic
goal victory may be your fastest option, but if the opportunity presents itself,
a Bermuda illuminated victory may take your rivals by surprise. Keep
Semiconscious Liberation Army and Moral Minority in reserve for this, as these
will give you a lot of alignments in one fell swoop.

If you get battered on your way to the basic goal, the Bermuda victory is still
open to you. Organize your multi alignment groups close to your illuminati, and
play power-ups and alignment creating plots, to establish a hard core with high
power and many alignments. Again, Moral Minority and possibly Semiconscious
Liberation Army can provide those last alignments when you need them.
Don't bring out Moral Minority until you are sure of winning, as a conservative
group will be very hard to steal from someone else.

You have quite a few plots that will help you make a predatorial attack, in
order to steal a cluster of groups, or a group with some key alignments. Playing
a Liberal Agenda on the target first will make the attack much more likely to
succeed. You may also attempt to achieve the Hand of Madness. Saturday Morning
Cartoons should be kept in reserve for this ruse. Once you've destroyed the
necessary peaceful groups, bring it out and play Let's Get REALLY Organized
immediately, in order to generate a lot of Violent Groups. Big Sellout is very
expensive. Only use it in an emergency, and only to get 1-2 extra tokens. Mob
Influence can only be played on the Semiconscious Liberation Army, but Power
Corrupts will make another group an eligible target. Epidemic can break up a
rivals victory after it has been declared. Mothers March can help you against
any attack to destroy, even an instant one. A Thousand Points of Light will make
you grow quicker, while Political Correctness will boost your power tremendously
- useful early on, but if used late in the game, it might be the last red NWO to
hit the table.

Remember, if you are going for the Bermuda goal, you may achieve a shared
victory by swapping 2 groups with alignments that you've already got, for a
rivals group with the alignments that you need to complete your
goal.