5. Investigators: All Here In My Head

As intense, cerebral Investigators, you are perceptive, innovative, secretive,
and isolated. You're just beginning to understand the way everything fits
together; if you just had the authority to conduct experiments on a global scale
. . .

Role Models

Like the villainous scientist from a 1930s pulp serial, you place proof of your
theories (and revenge on those who slighted you) above all else. Your towering
intellect (and heavy accent, usually German or Eastern European) separates you
from your fellow Americans; you trust no one.

Most Likely To Say:

"They called me mad! But I'll show them . . .
"It's going to be hard to test my theory without destroying the universe, but
what the hell!? It's a really neat theory!"
"If the murder of twelve innocent people can help save one human life, it will
have been worth it."

Deck Listing

    Illuminati
        The Network
    Groups
        Center for Disease Control
        Dinosaur Park
        Evil Geniuses for a Better Tomorrow
        Finland
        Germany
        International Weather Organization
        L-4 Society
        Moonbase
        NASA
        Orbit One
        Phone Company
        Phone Phreaks
        Robot Sea Monsters
        Silicon Valley
        South American Nazis
        Video Games
        Eliza
        Library at Alexandria
        Perpetual Motion Machine
        Rogue Boomer
        Weather Satellite
    Plots
        The Auditor from Hell
        The Big Sellout
        Blitzkrieg
        Cold Fusion
        Computer Security
        Computer Virus
        Deasil Engine
        Dictatorship
        Early Warning
        Earth Magic
        Gremlins
        Hurricane
        Infobahn
        The Internet Worm
        Market Manipulation
        Mothers' March
        Rain of Frogs
        Tornado
        Volunteer Aid
        Vultures
        The Weak Link
        World Cup Victory
        NWO: World War Three

Strategy

This is a fairly standard Computer/Science/Space spawning behemoth, with plenty
of Places. Lead with Germany; you can use its ability (enhanced when it becomes
a Dictatorship, when you invent the Perpetual Motion Machine, and by careful use
of NASA) to build up powerful attacks. Many of your groups give bonuses to
control Computer, Science, or Space; you should have no difficulty taking three
power 3+ Computer groups. A mostly-isolationist strategy comes naturally to you,
as you stay in your basement laboratories perfecting your creations.

Variants and Substitutions

Blinded by Science is an appropriate goal, but note the errata - your power
boosters (South American Nazis, Video Games) become particularly important. Add
Power Satellite and link it to a science place for an extra +2; you can also
include Nutrition Nazis to teach a high-power group (such as the German
Dictatorship) the Virtues of Science. Supernova helps you get your gadgets off
the drawing board; This Was Only a Test, Back to the Salt Mines, and Beach Party
aid your places. General Disorder fits with your theme, and can be used to stop
dangerous disasters destroying your places. Blivit and X-Ray Specs are useful
for investigating and blocking those who would interfere in your research, but
beware of making your groups deck too large. Good cards to drop include Robot
Sea Monsters, Rogue Boomer, The Big Sellout, Vultures, Deasil Engine, Gremlins,
South American Nazis (if you are not using Blinded by Science), World War Three,
the disasters, and Weather
Satellite.