2. Helpers: Take My Hand

As caring Helpers, you are generous, demonstrative, people-pleasing, and
possessive. You have no interest in power, but seek only to aid those worse off
than yourselves, whether or not they realize that they need your help.

Role Models

You want to be liked. You love to help people - it gives you a warm glow inside,
and makes you feel like worthwhile human beings. People who are too proud to
accept aid annoy you, as do those who simply sit back and wait for things to be
handed out to them. Neither irritates you as much as those who fail to
appreciate what you do for them, though, doing nothing in return; and worst of
all are those who do more for other people, making you feel small. In some ways
you care too much . . .

Most Likely To Say:

"Here, let me help you with that. No, no, I insist."
"How can you turn on me after all I've done for you?"
"Watching the film of those poor kids, I just had to pledge some money straight
away, even though it was terribly inconvenient."

Deck Listing

    Illuminati
        Adepts of Hermes
    Groups
        Boy Sprouts
        CFL-AIO
        China
        England
        Fraternal Orders
        The Great Pyramid
        Hillary Clinton
        Lawyers
        Psychiatrists
        Red Cross
        Rosicrucians
        Secular Humanists
        Stonehenge
        Templars
        Triliberal Commission
        W.I.T.C.H.
        Ark of the Covenant
        Book of Kells
        Death Mask
        Necronomicon
        Shroud of Turin
        Soulburner
        Spear of Longinus
    Plots
        18 1/2 Minute Gap
        Air Magic
        And STAY Dead!
        Bribery
        Counterspell
        Cover of Darkness
        Cover-Up
        Crop Circles
        Fnord
        Giant Kudzu
        Harmonica Virgins
        Hoax
        Plague of Demons
        Power Grab
        Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
        Seize the Time!
        The Stars Are Right
        Stealing the Plans
        Unlucky 13
        Goal: The Corporate Masters
        NWO: Solidarity

Strategy

There are no dominant alignments to help you build your power structure and many
of your groups have special abilities which are not directly useful to you.
However, you have plenty of magic resources and the best selection of
general-purpose plots, such as Seize The Time and Secrets Man Was Not Meant To
Know. You are caring and generous, so help people - make deals as often as you
can, for instance using the Red Cross to grant relief to someone in return for a
card, playing Hoax if someone else powers it, or even using your bonuses to
destroy an unpopular group if others help your attack. You are unlikely to be
seen as a threat early on, and can build up resources to get you closer to the
Adepts goal.

If you want to play to your strengths, go for fine control and lead the
Rosicrucians. You will need to rely on automatic takeovers for the first few
turns (including using your Illuminati token for Resources) but will usually be
able to get the cards you need when you need them. If you would rather minimize
your weaknesses, lead CFL-AIO, which is powerful, has a +4 to control three
other groups from your deck, is the only group to count double for the Corporate
Masters, and becomes even more useful with China as its puppet. Remember,
though, that if you lead the Rosicrucians you can decide to use Crop Circles to
get CFL-AIO into your hand later.

Solidarity is a good NWO for you, since it makes it harder for everyone to take
over groups but resources are unaffected. Fraternal Orders, Crop Circles, Power
Grab, and The Stars Are Right all help you get your resources into play. Your
other plots and special abilities are either defensive or fodder for
deal-making.

Variants and Substitutions

Grave Robbers and Rain of Prairie Squid help you to get the groups and/or
resources you really want; Arise is a good goal in case your rivals turn
vicious. Generally useful plots include Repent, Time Control, and You'd Pay To
Know What You REALLY Think; Near Miss fits with your theme. Cards to consider
dropping include Hillary Clinton, Templars, Cover-up, The Corporate Masters, And
STAY Dead, Counterspell, Unlucky 13, Secular Humanists, and Giant Kudzu.

One risky trick to use if your fellow Illuminati are ruthless: include Antitrust
Legislation with Arise, wait until someone is committed to an unstoppable attack
to destroy one of your groups (perhaps using The First Thing We Do, Let's Kill
All The Lawyers), play Antitrust Legislation, hang all your other groups off the
attacked group, and wait for victory . .
.