9. Peacemakers: Love Ain't For Keeping

As easygoing, self-effacing Peacemakers, you are receptive, reassuring,
agreeable, and complacent. You don't particularly want to rule the world, you
just need the power to stop everyone fighting.

Role Models

You are the 1960s throwbacks preaching peace and love in a cynical world. Some
of you live in communes, smoking illegal substances while practicing Eastern
philosophy and religion; others work quietly with your local church or school
for the good of the community. You are all dedicated to your cause, and will get
involved (peacefully) in any protest against aggressive practices. You love to
sing (preferably something simple, so anyone can join in), and you keep smiling
even through dark times.

Most Likely To Say:

"'All we are saying is give peace a chance.' Come on, join in with the chorus!"
"Make love, not war."
"Don't think of it as interference; we simply act as facilitators to help end
your pointless conflict."
"Violence solves nothing. Only passive resistance can bring about lasting
change."

Deck Listing

    Illuminati
        Shangri-La
    Groups
        A.M.A.
        Druids
        Elders of Zion
        Fnord Motor Company
        Israel
        Japan
        Moonies
        Mossad
        Nephews of God
        Princess Di
        Pyramid Marketing Schemes
        Reformed Church/Satan
        Supreme Court
        Telephone Psychics
        United Nations
        Vatican City
        Angel's Feather
        The Frog God
        Hallucinations
        Hidden City
        The Holy Grail
        Warehouse 23
    Plots
        Agent in Place
        An Offer You Can't Refuse
        Are We Having Fun Yet?
        Botched Contact
        Charismatic Leader
        Deep Agent
        Flower Power
        Full Moon
        Hat Trick
        Hit and Run
        Interference
        Jihad
        Kinder and Gentler
        Martyrs
        Murphy's Law
        Never Surrender
        Nobel Peace Prize
        Savings & Loan Scam
        Time Warp
        Upheaval
        Goal: Kill for Peace
        NWO: Peace in Our Time 

Strategy

This is primarily a Peaceful deck, although several of those who support your
cause are Fanatics. The other Illuminati do not understand that you merely seek
an end to conflict, so your cards are divided between those that protect you
from them and those that allow you to interfere in their battles. Some Violent
groups are a lost cause; you may need to Kill For Peace.

Lead with Japan. If the Investigators are involved this can help you to win over
a group or two, but Japan is also vulnerable to their blandishments, so take
care. All is not lost if they do go, however - you have no need to dominate so
long as peace can spread.

Variants and Substitutions

End of the World and Visualize Whirled Peas both improve your position; False
Slack and Sacred Jests are also appropriate. Luck Plane and Tape Runs Out are
useful, but expensive to play. Good cards to drop include Upheaval,
Hallucinations, Pyramid Marketing Schemes, United Nations, A.M.A., and Druids.
You may also decide that for purity's sake Israel and Mossad must go, but
instead consider dropping Fnord Motor Company and adding the Big Prawn to make
Israel a 6/3 Peaceful place (or 12/3 with the Nobel Peace Prize) . .
.