4. Individualists: See The Real Me

As sensitive, withdrawn Individualists, you are expressive, dramatic,
self-absorbed, and temperamental. Now is your chance to make the world sit up
and take notice of you.

Role Models

No one understands you - your vision needs nurturing, but you are constantly
squashed by the squares who care nothing for the finer things in life and expect
you to do the most dreadful mundane things, like work. Sometimes the frustration
becomes too great and you lash out; everyone nods knowingly and grumbles about
your "artistic temperament". You try to express yourselves throughout your
lives, but it makes little difference. You can never be all you want to be.

Most Likely To Say:

"Wonderful to see you, darling. Have you seen Damien's latest?"
"Quiet, please. I'm communing with my inner muse."
"This award means so much to me, and I have so many people to thank . . ."
"I am an artist! I cannot work in these conditions!"

Deck Listing

    Illuminati
        The Discordian Society
    Groups
        Bjorne
        California
        Church of Elvis
        Comic Books
        Conspiracy Theorists
        Cycle Gangs
        Elvis
        Girlie Magazines
        Hackers
        Hollywood
        Intellectuals
        Italy
        Media Sensation
        Punk Rockers
        Saturday Morning Cartoons
        Subliminals
        Tabloids
        Urban Gangs
        Bronze Head
        Center for Weird Studies
        Loch Ness Monster
        Orbital Mind Control Lasers
        Principia Discordia
    Plots
        Albino Alligators
        Angst
        Bimbo at Eleven
        Car Bomb
        Eat the Rich!
        Freaking the Mundanes
        Jake Day
        Let's Get Organized
        Let's Get REALLY Organized
        Media Connections
        New Blood
        Nuclear Accident
        Reload!
        Servants of Cthulhu
        Shangri-La
        Terrorist Nuke
        Unmasked!
        The Weird Turn Pro
        Whispering Campaign
        NWO: Don't Forget to Smash the State
        NWO: Fear and Loathing

Strategy

This is a Weird/Media/Violent deck. In terms of raw power you are the weakest
Illuminati, but you have no respect for such narrow-minded, bourgeois rankings;
you can reach people, and that is what is important. On the other hand, your
lack of control arrows is a real problem. You also have no goal cards, but
Unmasked can act as one. If the Peacekeepers are in the game and doing well, you
may want to consider Unmasking as Shangri-La. If you are successfully destroying
groups, Unmask as the Servants of Cthulhu (although this is riskier; people will
jump on you for this).

Surprisingly, your arch-rivals are not the Loyalist "normals". They can do
little to you, while you can get to them. The Achievers, on the other hand, can
use their glitzy image to attract groups away from pure individualism in search
of recognition.

Lead with California, your spiritual home. Gain and protect the Subliminals and
they will soon become a powerful force for self-expression. In fact, despite
their individualism, many of your groups work well together, increasing each
other's power - Hollywood becomes 7/7 when you have Bjorne and Media Sensation,
using your Media Connections with California makes it 6/6, Intellectuals help
still further.

Variants and Substitutions

The True Pipe, Fake Healing, and The World Ends Tomorrow and You May Die are
good power boosters; Bulldada and Schism help you against those who cannot see
your genius. Cards to drop include Girlie Magazines, Loch Ness Monster, the
Bronze Head, and Punk
Rockers.