6. Loyalists: Blend In The Crowd

As committed, security-oriented Loyalists, you are engaging, responsible,
anxious, and suspicious. You need to maintain the status quo, even if you have
to take over to do so.

Role Models

Your spiritual home is '50s small-town Middle America. You are the clean-cut,
square-jawed, pipe-smoking men and neat, domesticated women who work hard to
support your 2.4 children and 1.3 cars. You leave your picket-fenced homes every
Sunday to go to the right kind of church, behave properly, and are always on
guard against the Evil Influences that constantly threaten your way of life.
Should invaders intrude on your idyll, you have guns and know how to use them.

Most Likely To Say:

"So, how was your day, honey?"
"What are you, some kind of commie freak? Get a haircut."
"Eternal vigilance is the price of freedom."
"Praise the Lord and pass the ammunition."

Deck Listing

    Illuminati
        Servants of Cthulhu
    Groups
        B.A.T.F
        Bank of England
        C.I.A.
        Congressional Wives
        Dan Quayle
        Dentists
        Deprogrammers
        F.B.I.
        Fast Food Chains
        Fred Birch Society
        Gordo Remora
        KKK
        Local Police Departments
        The Men in Black
        Moral Minority
        Nancy Reagan
        Professional Sports
        Religious Reich
        Republicans
        Savings and Loans
        Voudonistas
        Hitler's Brain
    Plots
        Annual Convention
        Atomic Monster
        Citizenship Award
        Combined Disasters
        Dollars for Decency
        Earthquake
        Fundie Money
        Grassroots Support
        Just Say No
        Meteor Strike
        The Oregon Crud
        Poison
        Slush Fund
        Sniper
        Spasm of Violence
        Straighten Up
        Tidal Wave
        Volcano
        Withering Curse
        Goal: Let Them Eat Cake!
        NWO: Law and Order
        NWO: World Hunger

Strategy

This is a no-nonsense Straight/Conservative deck, with plenty of cards to help
you eliminate subversives, particularly the bleeding-heart Reformers and
suspiciously-strange Enthusiasts. Discordia makes the Individualists almost
entirely immune to you, but beatniks and artists are rarely more than a minor
nuisance - if you ignore them while you steamroller your way to victory normalcy
should prevail, and if not, you have the Deprogrammers on your side . . .

Lead with a strong group that helps you against your foes, such as the F.B.I.
(if facing the Enthusiasts), Republicans (Reformers), or C.I.A. (Challengers).
Build up your power structure from your hand, and as soon as you have enough
groups to feel secure and have built up decent bonuses to destroy (probably on
turn 3) hit hard and fast. You cannot afford to be too subtle - your foes will
see you as a threat, and there can be no compromises or pussyfooting with the
enemies of freedom.

Variants and Substitutions

Citizens for Normalcy is the archetypal Loyalist organization; they belong in
your deck, as does Decency Is OK!. Most of your rivals have a Huge Place or two,
so Population Reduction can be useful. Supreme Court Nomination, Truck Bomb, and
You Are What You Eat help you with what you do best. Good cards to drop include
Savings and Loans, Voudonistas, Gordo Remora, Hitler's Brain, and Bank of
England.