1. Reformers: Smile And Grin At The Change All Around

As rational, idealistic Reformers, you are principled, purposeful,
self-controlled, and perfectionistic. The world needs changing, and you are the
best people to do that, so it's in everyone's interests that you take control.

Role Models

You are the loony left, greens bleating about Mother Earth and pinkos ranting
about oppression. You know you have all the answers; anyone who fails to see
that is a pawn or agent of The System. Once the capitalists, patriarchs,
despoilers, and aristocrats are out of the way, your New World Order will bring
equality and justice to the common man. Sorry, the common person. And animal.
And tree . . .

Most Likely To Say:

"Come and see the violence inherent in the system! Help! Help! I'm being
repressed!"
"Tread lightly upon Gaia, or she will tread heavily upon all of us."
"Too much power is dangerous in any hands - except ours, of course."
"Vive la Revolution!"

Deck Listing

    Illuminati
        The Bermuda Triangle
    Groups
        Al Gore
        Anti-Nuclear Activists
        Antiwar Activists
        Black Activists
        Canada
        Democrats
        E.F.F.
        Eco-Guerrillas
        Feminists
        Fidel Castro
        Fiendish Fluoridators
        France
        Gay Activists
        International Communist Conspiracy
        Libertarians
        Prince Charles
        Rifkinites
        Semiconscious Liberation Army
        Society for Creative Anarchism
        Underground Newspapers
        Bigfoot
        Earthquake Projector
        Suicide Squad
    Plots
        Backlash
        Benefit Concert
        Commitment
        Double-Cross
        Embezzlement
        Good Polls
        Liberal Agenda
        Logic Bomb
        March on Washington
        Pledge Drive
        Privileged Attack
        Rewriting History
        Sabotage
        Save the Whales
        Self-Esteem
        Servants of Cthulhu
        Sucked Dry and Cast Aside!
        The Second Bullet
        Goal: Power to the People
        NWO: A Thousand Points of Light
        NWO: Political Correctness

Strategy

This is a moderately powerful Liberal/Green deck, with a few groups Fanatical
about the cause. Your natural enemies are the Achievers who have bought into the
system, and the reactionary Loyalists (although you have agents who should help
you to return Power to the People). Lead with Canada, which will help you to
build up your Green connections - always use Bermuda's ability to reorganize at
the end of your turn so that you have free control arrows on groups with "direct
attack" bonuses (Canada, Al Gore, Rifkinites). However, don't try for Bermuda's
goal. Keep A Thousand Points of Light in reserve to avert an Energy Crisis or
World Hunger.

Variants and Substitutions

The Green Party and Lama Ramadingdong should really be on your side. You also
want Global Warming (a blue NWO which actively helps your cause), Earth First,
and Oil Spill; Alternate Goals would let you decide between Earth First and
Power To The People at the last minute. Add Watermelons, May Day, and Lenin's
Body if you want to play up your Communist tendencies. Dolphins fits your theme
but is of minor use. Take the EPA if you are really worried about the Nuclear
Power Companies, but remember you can build up large bonuses to destroy them
anyway. Good cards to remove include Earthquake Projector, Suicide Squad,
E.F.F., Democrats (who aren't radical enough to be true Reformers), Logic Bomb,
Servants of Cthulhu, Privileged Attack, Prince Charles, Sabotage, and Sucked Dry
and Cast
Aside.