7. Enthusiasts: Set The Paces

As busy, fun-loving Enthusiasts, you are spontaneous, versatile, acquisitive,
and scattered. There's always been too much going on to take control of the
world, but now the time seems right - and what the hey, it could be a laugh.

Role Models

You are the gamers, the collectors, the convention-goers - in fact, everyone who
spends a large proportion of their money, time, and energy on pursuits the rest
of the world considers trivial. Such as INWO. Some of you try your hand at games
with bigger stakes - collecting all the crime syndicates on the East Side,
planning survival after the bomb - but you all share the same characteristics.
You are smart, determined, and oblivious to the fact that everyone else finds
your obsessions mind-numbingly boring. Igor (from Dork Tower) is an Enthusiast
par excellence.

Most Likely To Say:

"It Must Be Mine!"
"Actually, the history of the granola bar contains some fascinating insights
into the development of Western civilization - let me tell you about it . . ."
"And then I rolled another six . . ."
"Live long and prosper."

Deck Listing

    Illuminati
        UFOs
    Groups
        American Autoduel Association
        Cattle Mutilators
        Flat Earthers
        Goldfish Fanciers
        Gun Lobby
        International Cocaine Smugglers
        Jimmy Hoffa
        Loan Sharks
        The Mafia
        New York
        Ninjas
        Ollie North
        Paranoids
        S.M.O.F.
        Science Fiction Fans
        Survivalists
        Texas
        Trading Card Games
        Trekkies
        Wargamers
        Crystal Skull
        Cyborg Soldiers
        Midas Mill
    Plots
        The Big Score
        The First Thing We Do, Let's Kill All The Lawyers
        Gang War
        Hex
        Hidden Influence
        I Lied
        Let's You and Him Fight
        Mob Influence
        Opportunity Knocks
        Power Corrupts
        Reach Out . . .
        Red Scare
        Reorganization
        Swiss Bank Account
        Voodoo Economics
        Goal: Criminal Overlords
        Goal: Fratricide
        Goal: Hail Eris!
        Goal: The Hand of Madness
        NWO: Energy Crisis
        NWO: Gun Control

Strategy

This is a Criminal/Violent deck with a sideline in Weirdness. One weakness is
that you have no global power (except for that of the UFOs themselves and what
you can add with your Hidden Influence), because you have been too busy
concentrating on your own pursuits. On the other hand, several cards help you to
take advantage of your extra action token. Lead with New York, where the
strangest hobbies seem normal.

Chicken In Every Pot and Peace in Our Time are very bad for you - it may be
worth keeping your NWOs in reserve to cancel them if the Achievers and
Shangri-La are playing. If you have both Gun Lobby and Ninjas, you can
effectively move tokens to the Ninjas and gain plots by launching attacks
against them which are doomed to fail. Mob Influence, Power Corrupts, and Cyborg
Soldiers can make those tokens powerful, but even if not they can still be used
to draw more plots . . .

Variants and Substitutions

Head Launching helps with your global power shortage, as will the Xists, while
Sultan of Slack can often prevent someone else's victory. . . . Or Kill Me is a
good way to get an Illuminati token back when you've used too many, JHVH-1 and
Sorry, Wrong Number are fun (if nasty) ways to use one. If you are using the
Ninjas trick, Apathy can prevent interference by your rivals turning the attack
into a "success". Good cards to drop include Flat Earthers, Ollie North, The
First Thing We Do, Let's Kill All The Lawyers, International Cocaine Smugglers,
Fratricide, Red Scare, and Cattle Mutilators.
