Construct some decks. Infect some newbies. Control the world. Drink some coffee.
Deck listing for John Wood's Personality Clash deck set

Are you different? Then you are probably better than everyone else! Once you and
your kind have taken over the world, everyone will be able to see that your way
of thinking is inherently superior . . .

The Conspiracy is divided along lines of personality. According to the Enneagram
(see, for example, the Enneagram Institute), there are nine personality types. A
One With Everything set includes nine Illuminati, and just enough cards to
create nine decks. COINCIDENCE?

Deck Construction

The decks are built assuming three or more players, automatic takeovers, and a
basic goal of at least ten groups. A nine-player game could be very interesting
. . .

All the OWE plots, resources, and groups have been used, except for Alternate
Goals (since only the UFOs have more than one goal) and the nine cards referring
to duplicates. The extra copies of some Illuminati were needed to make up the
numbers (and for use with Unmasked). This restricted choice forced some
compromises; in particular, all the decks contain too many groups. This should
not be a problem unless they are used outside of the Personality Clash milieu.

Each deck description offers an Assassins/SubGenius sideboard which can be used
to produce a better-balanced deck (based on both utility and adherence to the
theme). One copy of INWO SubGenius would allow more than half of the suggested
changes, and since the sideboards contain no duplicates, specials, or
ultra-rares non-fanatic Assassins collectors should be able to make most or all
of the rest.

Deck Description

Each deck description follows a standard format. It opens with a single-sentence
explanation of the personality type (as listed by the Enneagram Institute) and a
brief explanation of why you are involved in the struggle for world domination.
Role Models then offers a guide to roleplaying your type. This is followed by
the card lists - Illuminati, Groups, and Plots. The Strategy section describes
the feel of the deck in game terms, points out important card combinations or
foes, and suggests possible leads. Finally, the sideboard changes are detailed
under Variants and Substitutions, with the most useful listed first.

Note that each deck is based upon a parody of an Enneagram personality, and has
been adjusted accordingly. For instance, Margaret Thatcher was really a
Reformer, but since we are using the "radical left" Reformer stereotype her
right-wing beliefs meant she had to be placed elsewhere. Caveat Ludor.

General Guidelines

The strategy sections describe unique and interesting features of each deck, but
most of the advice given in The INWO Book also applies. Make sure you also check
the latest errata and rules changes at http://www.sjgames.com/inwo/errata/.

Flexibility is vital. There is no guarantee that you will get the cards you
really want, so make the best of what you do get.

Roleplaying your deck's personality type provides much of the fun when using
this set; overacting is definitely appropriate.
