3. Achievers: Strike Out To Reach A Mountain

As success-oriented, pragmatic Achievers, you are adaptable, excelling, driven,
and image-conscious. You are entering the ultimate competition, to promote
yourselves above all others; you have no doubt of your ability to succeed.

Role Models

You are the Yuppies of the 1980s, riding a wave of guilt-free greed. All
publicity is good publicity - you don't care what other people think of you so
long as they can clearly see how much more stuff you have than them. In fact,
trampling on the little guy is not so much a necessity as a vocation. Live fast
and hard, hog the limelight, and don't let anyone else get a look-in.

Most Likely To Say:

"Gotta go, my agent's on the other mobile. Ciao."
"You created your own problems. You fouled up. You trusted me."
"In my position, Armani and Gucci are necessary expenses. My accountant will
explain it to you."
"Let's do lunch."

Deck Listing

    Illuminati
        Gnomes of Zurich
    Groups
        Big Media
        Brazil
        Cable TV
        Empty Vee
        Federal Reserve
        Hawaii
        Imelda Marcos
        Joggers
        Junk Mail
        Las Vegas
        Liquor Companies
        Madison Avenue
        Multinational Oil Companies
        Nuclear Power Companies
        Offshore Banks
        Pentagon
        Pollsters
        Recording Industry
        Ross Perot
        Switzerland
        Tobacco Companies
        TV Preachers
        Wall Street
    Plots
        Bank Merger
        Blood, Toil, Tears and Sweat
        Corruption
        Currency Speculation
        Exposed!
        Foiled!
        George the Janitor
        Mass Murder
        Miracle Diet Plan
        Monopoly
        Nice Idea. It's Mine Now.
        Privatization
        Pulitzer Prize
        Resistance is Useless!
        Scandal
        Stock Split
        Sweeping Reforms
        Tax Breaks
        Goal: Power for its Own Sake
        NWO: Bigger Business
        NWO: Chicken in Every Pot

Strategy

This is a straightforward Corporate/Media deck - lead with Madison Avenue to go
after the fame, or (probably less usefully) Federal Reserve to concentrate on
the money. Ultimately, of course, you want both, so whenever you see an opening,
go for it. You can afford to be ruthless - one particularly nasty trick is to
let the Nuclear Power Companies and/or Liquor Companies control Hawaii and
Brazil, then use them to prevent your rivals from doing very much at all. Liquor
Companies can also be used with Las Vegas - bet one card, and if you lose stop
your rival from taking it. Watch out for the Reformers who can build up large
bonuses to destroy your best groups (supported by onlookers jealous of your
achievements).

Many of your groups are powerful, and others can become so in combination. You
may be able to grab Power For Its Own Sake, particularly if you can keep Bigger
Business and Chicken in Every Pot in play when you make your bid.

Variants and Substitutions

Don't Touch That Dial is good way to take advantage of others when they
overstretch themselves. More Slack, Give Me Slack, Or Give Me Food, and
Shordurpersav are generally useful. Cards to drop include Miracle Diet Plan, Las
Vegas, Joggers, Corruption, and Tobacco
Companies.