INWO Deck: Revenge, Part 1
by Bill Kavanaugh
Premise
Anybody that's played multi-player INWO (or Illuminati) more than a few times
has been picked on at some point. Perhaps there is someone in your playing
circle that dumps on you more often than anyone else at the table. Perhaps you
want to make a new enemy, or just flex your muscles. Maybe you had a bad day and
want someone to play lightning rod. This deck is designed for those occasions.

The Deck
Illuminati
Servants of Cthulhu

Groups

    CFL-AIO
    CIA
    Cycle Gangs
    Japan
    KKK
    New York
    Nuclear Power Companies
    Phone Phreaks
    Semiconscious Liberation Army
    Tabloids
    The Mafia
    The Men in Black 

Resources

    Cyborg Soldiers 

Plots

    Bribery
    Murphy's Law
    Hoax (3x)
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    The Big Score
    Terrorist Nuke (4x)
    Censorship
    Faction Fight
    The Second Bullet (2x)
    The Big Sellout
    Mob Influence
    Good Polls
    Savings and Loan Scam
    Senate Investigating Committee

    NWO - Solidarity
    NWO - World War III
    NWO - Fear and Loathing

    Criminal Overlords (2x)

    Sniper
    Car Bomb

    Tidal Wave
    Atomic Monster
    Nuclear Accident
    Meteor Strike 

Strategy
This is not a subtle deck. The concepts here is to kill, destroy and maim (why
else would you be the Servants?). The Criminal Overlords goal cards are in the
deck to make it easier to win, but that's not really the intent of this deck.
This deck is for revenge!

Lead
The selection of the lead group should be determined by the other Illuminati
groups playing in the game. If the Gnomes are in the game, then the CFL-AIO is a
good lead. If Bavaria is not in the game then New York is a good possibility,
although it's in the deck more as an agent than anything else. Otherwise, lead
with either the CIA or the Mafia. Personally, I would choose the CIA,
particularly if Discordia is not around (or if the Network is).

Play
New York, Japan and the Nuclear Power Companies are in the deck as agents cards.
Be sure to play Nuclear Accident (if possible) before taking out the NPC. Soften
Japan/New York up with a disaster before destroying them. If the Adepts of
Hermes (and/or, to a lesser extent, Discordia) are in the game, get the Tabloids
out ASAP. Use the Tabloids to attack the Adepts' secret groups. He cannot match
your raw power. If Shangri-la is in the game, bring out the KKK. If the Network
is in the game, bring out the Phone Phreaks. Prioritize bringing out the SLA if
Bermuda is in the game. Cycle Gangs and Men In Black are in the deck for their
bonuses to destroy. The Men in Black is a useful card if the Clone Arrangers
(another target for Tabloids) are in play. Cyborg Soldiers are probably
unnecessary but can be combined with New York, the Mafia or CIA to make a
formidable lead power group.

The plots are pretty basic. The NWO cards are there more for defense than
offense, though after a couple turns Solidarity can really slow your opponents
down. 4 disasters and 2 assassinations (+CIA) are in the deck for obvious
reasons. If someone in your play circle really likes the NPC then Atomic Monster
can be swapped for an additional Nuclear Accident.

Most of the rest of the cards are temporary power boosts. There are also 4 plots
for negating other plots. Censorship will take out a key media group. Savings
and Loan Scam and the Big Sellout are for that last big push to win the game.

A couple of brute force decks (like this one) will set your opponents up for the
subtler decks which involve guile and deception. Get them expecting brute force
and they will ignore you when you don't seem to be threat.

This deck pretty much ignores Discordia, though they can be pushed around with
the Mafia and CFL-AIO. Also, unless you play New York, you will have no cards
vulnerable to instant attack (not an accident!). It will be power on power,
which favors you, especially if you can make just 1 alliance.

There is enough power in this deck to take out whole wings of an opponent's
power structure, particularly if you have several of the bonus to destroy cards
out (SLA, Cycle Gangs, Men In Black). The Phone Phreaks will help you arrange
your opponent's power structure to make it easier to knock out lots of groups at
once (if they lose 1 group and have 3 or 4 more go back in their hand then
they're dead meat).

Have fun!

Back to the Deck of the Week.
