INWO Deck -- Save the Earth...for Us!
By Doug Ingram

The Deck
Illuminati

    Shangri-La 

Groups

    Al Gore
    Anti-Nuke Activists
    Canada
    France
    The Green Party
    Lama Ramadingdong
    Princess Di
    Red Cross
    Swingers
    Underground News
    Vatican City 

Resources

    The Big Prawn (UNIQUE)
    Immortality Serum
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers (UNIQUE)
    Perpetual Motion Machine (UNIQUE) 

Plots

    Back to the Salt Mines
    Benefit Concert x2
    Cover of Darkness
    Early Warning
    Forgery
    GOAL: Hail Eris!
    Good Polls x2
    Kinder and Gentler x2
    Liberal Agenda
    Martyrs x2
    Messiah
    Murphy's Law
    Nevermore!
    NWO BLUE: Global Warming
    NWO RED: Peace In Our Time
    NWO RED: Political Correctness
    Nobel Peace Prize
    Oil Spill
    Read My Lips
    Save the Whales x2
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know x2
    Seize The Time!
    Self-Esteem 

If no duplicates allowed, then replace duplicates with:

    Giant Kudzu
    Emergency Powers
    Senate Investigating Committee
    Swiss Bank Account
    Commitment
    Bribery
    Exorcism 

This deck was designed by Doug Ingram (ingram@u.washington.edu). It works under
the following rules:

    Auto-takeovers allowed
    Play to 11 or more groups
    Duplicates allowed (but alternative plots suggested otherwise).
    4 or more players (haven't tried it in a smaller game). 

When I design decks, I'm generally reluctant to include a lot of rares. At
least, I try not to include rares that are crucial to the deck. In this case,
though, I can't offer alternatives for all the rares. I will say that the most
important rare cards here are Canada and The Big Prawn. The Red Cross is also
rather important, especially in a game against Cthulhu, since it offers
additional disaster protection and some peaceful power. There are other groups
that have similar functions compared to Swingers and Underground News
(Eco-Guerrilas comes to mind, for example, and there are other Liberal and/or
Green groups). The other rares and their alternatives will be discussed below.

Strategy
Lead
Well, even though it's obvious for Shangri-La, I suggest a lead of Vatican City.
If that bounces, go for Canada. Assuming you have the Vatican out, get out the
Orbital Mind Control Lasers on your first turn if you have it in your hand (50%
chance). Now you've got an easy defense against an early ambush by a
power-monger like Bavaria since you are immune to Peaceful groups. It's also
important to get and KEEP the Lasers out, though this can be extremely
difficult. There are a few plot cards in the deck to help you with this. Just
remember, your 2nd most important goal in this game is to get and keep control
of the Orbital Mind Control Lasers. Do whatever it takes to do that. You can win
without them, but it is much more difficult. Your MOST important goal in the
game is to ensure "NWO Blue: World Hunger" doesn't come out (or stay out)...keep
your Blue NWO aside for this emergency.

Early Game
Build slowly. If you get a power increase plot card, put it in play ASAP. The
best combinations are:

    Nobel Peace Prize --> Lama Ramadingdong (*)
    Self-Esteem --> France, Princess Di, Swingers
    Emergency Powers --> France, Canada (Al Gore isn't bad, though) 

First, let's look at the Lama. Unless you get Messiah into your hand early,
you'll want to boost the Lama's power ASAP since he gets to defend all of your
other Green groups as a free move. If you get Messiah, clearly the Lama is the
best choice with Princess Di second best. It's pretty easy to have a power 8 or
9 Lama at the end of your second turn. Give Shangri-La its normal +5 against
attacks in addition to the free move capability, and you won't have to worry
about people attacking you all that much, even if you spend your tokens.

You'll want to get France's power up as high as possible quickly as well for the
same reason. With a powered-up France and Lama in the game and all of those
Liberal/Green groups, you're damned hard to attack. TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS by
liberally spending the action tokens from your groups to inhibit the growth of
other players. This is crucial because you don't have that many offensive plot
cards. Make your power felt through action tokens whenever you can.

As for groups, I've already implied it above, but you'll want to get out France
and Lama pretty quickly. France, in fact, is a good third priority lead behind
the Vatican and Canada.

Offense and Defense
Defensively, as I've said, your groups and natural bonuses are going to be tough
to overcome. If Cthulhu is in the game or someone looks disaster-happy (with
groups that aid disasters), then get the Red Cross out on the first turn, if
possible. Just be sure those disasters, when they do get played, go toward
someone else's places. Also, a nice idea is to offer any Cthulhu player an Oil
Spill card in trade for a promise not to throw any disasters your way. It'll
have a better chance to succeed if Cthulhu plays it.

Probably your biggest enemy, as a group, is Newt Gingrich, who has a base chance
of +14 to destroy Liberal groups (his mere presence nullifies your +5 extra
defense as Shangri-La for your Liberal groups). If he comes out, do something to
neutralize him, if necessary with the OMCL's (turn him violent so he's eligible
to be destroyed, then attack with all of the Liberal/Peaceful power you own).
Get help if you need it. Cut deals. The three most dangerous cards in the game
for you are (in order):

World Hunger, Newt Gingrich, (someone else's) OMCL's

Offensively, you'll be limited in destroying things by the fact you're
Shangri-La, and there won't be too many groups out there (probably) that fit
well enough into your power structure that it will be worth the effort to steal
them away from someone else. So you'll need to concentrate on using your power
to interfere with (or help) the actions of other players. Don't hesitate to do
it, keeping in mind your strong defensive position.

General Strategy
I include "Hail Eris!" in the deck because it is easy to get two powerful weird
groups in your own structure. With the OMCL's, you can always give yourself
another Weird group on a moment's notice if you manage to draw this goal. This
is more likely to happen in a long game. In a short game, your best bet for the
quick win is the 30 power goal for Peaceful groups. Save your Kinder & Gentler
card(s) for OTHER power structures, especially their powerful liberal groups,
both because you can then boost them with "Political Correctness" and because
you are immune to them if the Vatican is out.

I've avoided the standard Elvis/Church of Elvis that seems to plague all
Shangri-La decks because it is predictable and boring. As far as I'm concerned,
a Shangri-La player with EITHER of those two cards out is essentially trumpeting
out his eventual goal to the rest of the world, which in any INWO game with
competent players, is a mortal sin. Remember, you can get to 30 pretty quickly
in a variety of weird circumstances (Messiah and Kinder & Gentler creates as
much as 12 peaceful power all at once...combined these two with "PC" and you can
blind-side a lot of good players, though I'll grant this takes some luck to get
the right plot cards).

Finally, if there's another Shangri-La player in the game, it is likely you will
work extremely well together. That's because, other than the Vatican, this deck
doesn't have other groups that are common to other Shangri-La decks I tend to
see. Be sure to role-play this deck...especially if you can get "Pope Lama"
under the Vatican.

Thanks to Aaron Curtis for the title suggestion.

Back to the Deck of the Week.
