INWO Deck: Servants of Shangri-La

Premise
Cthulu likes to control violent things. This makes destroying easier. Up against
the wall lets you win when you destroy government groups. Place government,
peaceful, and violent in a deck, use all three special goals relating to these
groups, so you can win any possible way. Add Shangri-La to the deck. Mix well.

Lead Illuminati
Servants of Cthulu

Groups

    New York
    CIA
    IRS
    Loan Sharks
    Saddam Hussein
    Evil Geniuses for a Better Tomorrow
    Supreme Court
    Vatican City
    Japan
    Red Cross
    Goldfish Fanciers 

Resources

    Perpetual Motion Machine
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers
    Crystal Skull
    Necronomonicon
    Cyborg Soldiers 

Plots

    Goals
        Hand of Madness
        Up Agains the Wall
        Kill for Peace 
    New World Orders
        Military Industrial Complex
        Tax Reform 
    Illuminati
        Shangri-La
    Other Plots
        18 1/2 Minute Gap
        Assertiveness Training
        Cover of Darkness
        Emergency Powers
        Forgery
        Good Polls
        Kindler and Gentler x2
        Martial Law x2
        Martyrs
        Mob Influence
        Nobel Peace Prize
        New Federal Budget
        Rewriting History
        Seize the Time
        Senate Investigating Committee
        Terrorist Nuke
        Unmasked!
        Voodoo Economics
        The Weak Link 

Gameplay
How you play this deck depends very much on the situation & the draw. First look
at your first three plot cards. If you see Kindler & Gentler, Martyrs, etc. plan
on playing peaceful. If you see terrorist nuke, etc. then maybe you'll play
violent. Next look at the revealed Illuminati. If you see Shangri-La, you should
almost certainly lead with the Vatican. Otherwise, New York is always a good
choice, or even Evil Geniuses if you want to be different.

As the game develops, listen to your opponents talk about you. Figure out how
they think you are going to win. Use the Crystal Skull to get cards to go a
different way. Be on the lookout for your goal cards. If you get one and it is
of no immediate use, DO NOT keep it in your hand; place it six or seven cards
down in your deck; the crystal skull ensures that you will get it when you need
it.

If you've lead with New York, play big & bully. Link the Necronomicon to New
York. Play the Loan Sharks. Get Sadam Hussein, and/or the Supreme Court into
play ASAP, along with MIC, no more annoying Nuclear Power Companies. If you are
controlling big & violent, and no one seems to be stopping you, destroy your
peaceful government groups (Japan, Supreme Court) as these let you win either
with Hand of Madness OR Up against the Wall. If you think you cannot hold onto a
group, destroy it yourself. Don't forget your rewriting history. Please note
that many of your groups are valuable to others. Even if they get one of them
frist, your agents combined with Necronomicon or Cyborg Soldiers should allow
you to destroy it.

If there is no Shangri-La in the game, try to take over your peaceful groups,
protect them, use Kindler & Gentler as if you are going to destroy something,
then figure out loud that you don't have the power. When you've got enough
peace, unmask as Shangri-La & win.

If Shangri-La is in the game, it is even more fun. As I mentioned before, make
sure to lead with the Vatican. If you like, you can play your Shangri-La as
agents, and use your peaceful agents to rip him to shreds. OR... Show him the
Shangri-La out of your hand. Assure him that you are really on his side. Perhaps
even give him a Nobel Peace Prize to show your goodwill. Convince him to help
you take control of a peaceful group, OR, convince him to turn one of your Big
groups peaceful. Reveal Kill for Peace and laugh evily.

The beauty of this deck is its flexibility. It can go many ways. The card that
is CRITICAL to this flexibility is the Crystal Skull it lets you go through your
plot deck getting the plots that are relevant based on what you think is what
your opponents least expect. Get that out ASAP and save your protection cards
for that.

Don't forget rewriting history. Remember, people EXPECT you to destroy things
with Cthulu, if you destroy a couple of different alignments, they won't be
counting, until you rewrite history, OMCL some group, destroy it, and play Up
against the Wall.

The minute someone says that you're not playing like Cthulu is the moment to be
very violent and destroy something. But make sure that you can use that
something later.

Always be on the lookout for a Shangri-La win, particularly if there is no
Shangri-La in the game, as then no one will be counting peaceful. Make a point
of showing people your Hand of Madness (or just mention it, or just let them
figure it out, since it's an obvious Cthulu goal). Reinforce that belief. Play
Kinder & Gentler to get ready for a kill "next turn" Unmask.

Variations
Possible changes for greater effectiveness: Add Center for Weird Studies,
removing either the Necronomicon or the Cyborg Soldiers.

Remove New Federal Budget & Tax Reform and replace with Power Grabs.

Replace Saddam Hussein with the KKK.

Final Comments
The only thing I would change would be to be on the lookout for weak violent
groups (especially personalities) that are ill-defended, and make an effort to
destroy them, especially if Shangri-La is in the game.

When Shangri-La is in the game, you should try to make him your ally. Convince
him that it is easier to work toward your mutual goal if no one KNOWS you're
really Shangri-La. Convince him to help you destroy something, anything
(remember rewriting history) to throw people off the trail. Protect your Crystal
Skull.

When Shagri-La is in the game, people are much more careful about playing big
power cards. When they are not in the game, they are not so careful, and the
opportunity for an unexpected win are there. In a game the other night, both my
opponents were exhausted after taking the cyborg'ed New York from me.

With only the Goldfish Fanciers and the Red Cross left in my power structure,
they saw no threat. On my turn, I nobel prized the peace corp, kindler &
gentler'ed the cyborg'd new york on my opponents structure, OMCL the pentagon on
another opponents structure, and that combined with Japan on an opponents
structure, plus my groups, added up to more than enough when I unmasked. They
were spent from the attack on New York, and had no action tokens to draw plots.

I won the game with two groups!

Created by Brian Malcolm
Back to the Deck of the Week.
