Shell Game
by Scott McEvoy

Card Data
Illuminati:

    Servants of Cthulhu

Groups:

    New York
    CFL-AIO
    Deprogrammers
    Lawyers
    Tabloids
    Evil Geniuses for a Better Tomorrow
    NASA
    Urban Gangs
    Punk Rockers
    WITCH

Resources:

    Weather Satellite
    Rogue Boomer
    Book of Kells
    Suicide Squad
    Necronomicon
    Hammer of Thor
    Death Mask
    Spear of Longinus
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers

Plots:

    NWO: Australian Rules
    NWO: Military-Industrial Complex
    Terrorist Nuke x2
    Albino Alligators x2
    Stock Split x2
    Martial Law
    Pulitzer Prize
    Power Grab
    Censorship
    Scandal
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Good Polls
    The Weird Turn Pro
    Mother's March
    Meteor Strike
    Giant Kudzu
    Atomic Monster
    Poison
    Annual Convention
    Combined Disasters
    Adepts of Hermes
    Unmasked!

Strategy
Beginning

    Early in the game you want to look like your standard Cthulhu. Start the
game with New York. If that is blocked, then grab CFL-AIO, if that doesn't work,
the W.I.T.C.H. is your best bet. The Necronomicon is an obvious choice for New
York, and that's where it should go. Try and make sure you get a Resource at
least every other turn; not only will they help you when it's time to destroy a
group, but the magic ones will help the end game. When you bring out the Evil
Geniuses for a Better Tomorrow, use their token to grab the non-magic Resources.
You can let them be destroyed later (with a resource or two) if people start
thinking you are getting a little too powerful. Use the Power Grab to take a
Resource when you think you may need your token for defense. Try and keep New
York's token for defense each turn.

Midgame

    By turn 6 you should have at least three Magic Resources out. If not, you
need to start attacking groups to give the impression that you are going for the
goal. The Deprogrammers are there to keep Discordian honest, and the Tabloids
will help with anyone who is trying to stay hidden behind too many secret
groups. Using the disasters and assassination to take out a group here and there
can keep people from growing too quickly. Linking the Book of Kells to
W.I.T.C.H. will help keep people on your good side, you can help their attacks
by using the Spear/W.I.T.C.H. with two tokens combo to make most attacks
succeed.

Endgame

    Once you have your Resources in play, you should be set. If you haven't
destroyed enough groups to win, then make sure you still have your SMWNMTK in
your hand with your Unmasked! and Adepts. You look enough like a Cthulhu deck to
work it that way, but you have the resources to unmask without much trouble.

Potential Problems

    Lack of NWOs. Not having the right NWO can always cause problems. Taking out
a couple of the media based cards and substituting another Red NWO and a Blue
one (to help out with Interesting Times) is viable. Your Resources tend to be
some of the more popular ones, so swapping out one or two for some of the less
played might work, but would hurt the attack bonuses you get.

Variants and Substitutions

    Your editor here - along with the above NWO suggestions, you'll note one
SubG substitution I'd recommend - slip Aluminum Nazi... into your groups deck.
Not only are they good Cthulhu fodder, they're a Secret group that one could
link Resources to in the endgame if a bit more security was desired.

Back to Deck of the Week
