SlackStortion
by Pol Jackson

The voice in his head was syrupy-sweet. "Why fight the system?" it said. "It's
just more work that distracts from your pursuit of Slack. Every day, billions of
people waste their Slack by feeding the Conspiracy. Wouldn't it be better if
they were feeding you?" He felt dizzy, as if a great abyss had opened before
him. "They're not worthy of Slack," the nameless voice urged, "but you are. Take
it from them."

That Which Will Not Be Named has launched its own scheme to extort Slack from
the masses. Working from within the Church, the dreaded NHGH pulls the strings
on its empire of lawlessness and violence. But hey, it's a living, right?

Card Data
Illuminati:

    The Church of the Subgenius

Groups:

    CIA
    Clone Arrangers
    International Cocaine Smugglers
    Loan Sharks
    The Mafia
    New York
    NHGH
    Pentagon
    SLAK
    Texas
    www.subgenius.com

Resources:

    The Big Prawn
    Clipper Chip
    Cyborg Soldiers x2
    Flying Saucer
    Necronomicon

Plots:

    13013
    Are We Having Fun Yet?
    The Big Score
    Bulldada
    Devival
    Eternal Salvation or Triple Your Money Back
    Give Me Slack, or Give Me Food
    Hoax
    Jihad
    Martial Law
    Miraculous Manifestation
    Mob Influence
    More Slack!
    New Blood
    Power Grab
    Repent!
    Savings & Loan Scam x2
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Sultan of Slack
    Tape Runs Out
    Terrorist Nuke
    The World Ends Tomorrow and You May Die!
    Goal: The Anti"Bob"
    NWO Yellow: Antitrust Legislation
    NWO Blue: Fear and Loathing
    NWO Red: Gun Control

Strategy
Introduction

    This deck is nothing more than a brutal Violent/Criminal/Government
powerhouse. Your plan is simple: accumulate both Power and Slack at a truly
alarming rate, and claim victory with your Illuminated Goal.

    What's missing from this deck are the two most obvious Goals: Power for Its
Own Sake, and Criminal Overlords. This was an intentional decision. Veteran INWO
players will often gang up on anyone with too much Power, because of the threat
of Power for Its Own Sake. You may be able to convince them otherwise, though,
by exposing The Anti"Bob" Goal. This makes a win with Power for Its Own Sake
much less likely, since you already have a Goal exposed. As for Criminal
Overlords: You don't need it. Your Illuminated Goal already gives you three
extra groups. Criminal Overlords would just be a dead weight in your Plot deck.
Of course, if you want to add these Goals to your own deck, feel free! (See
"Variants and Substitutions", below.) 

Beginning

    Decide on your Lead based on your Plot draws. If you draw 13013, Mob
Influence, or New Blood, then your best lead is S.L.A.K. Otherwise, any strong
Violent Criminal group will do. The Mafia is probably best. If a rival is
playing the Society of Assassins, make sure to lead with the Clone Arrangers so
that they don't get it! A lead of www.subgenius.com is also good; it will slow
down your first few turns, but you'll be drawing lots of groups to choose from.

    Avoid spending any Slack actions! You'll want a large pool of Slack for the
Endgame, so start accumulating now. Avoid the temptation to spend Slack to take
over Resources. Be patient: when you draw the Flying Saucer, you'll be up to
your ears in free Resource takeovers. 

Midgame

    Expand! Just don't leave yourself too defenseless. You can use your +10
cards for defense in a pinch, but you should try and hoard them for the endgame.

    Power Grab and/or Repent! are best to play near the beginning of the game,
but you'll probably want to use them as soon as you draw them.

    The earlier you can get out www.subgenius.com, the more group cards you can
draw. This is a Good Thing.

    The Flying Saucer is your key for Resource ATOs. Remember, you can put one
of your Plots back on top of the deck before paying the discard cost!

    If you use the Big Prawn on Texas or New York, give them the "Fanatic"
alignment. That way, you can use "Jihad" with them if you draw it later.

    S.L.A.K. can be your most powerful asset, if you can bump up its power. See
Deck of the Week #60 ("S.L.A.K. Never Rests", by Aaron Curtis) for an entire
deck based around the machinations of S.L.A.K.

    Expose the Anti"Bob" whenever you think it's appropriate -- usually about
the time your opponents start counting your Power and mumbling about "Power for
Its Own Sake". 

Endgame

    If you've been a good little SubGenii, you should have accumulated lots and
lots of Slack. This is good. You'll need at least three for victory, a few more
for attacks or defense, and a few more in case your rivals can take some away
from you or force you to spend some. Use your massively overpowered power
structure and your +10 cards to take over enough groups to win, and declare
victory. Simple, no?

    If you're going to declare victory, it's best to take over far more groups
than you'll actually need to win. Your opponents may be able to thwart your
victory by removing some of your groups, so its best to have a surplus. Also,
it's a good idea to keep some Plots in reserve for when your rivals throw nasty
stuff at you. A Plot canceller or two should do the trick. Remember that NWO:
Fear and Loathing can remove NWO: Interesting Times. 

Potential Problems

    This deck has no real Disaster protection. Don't play New York, Texas, or
the Pentagon unless you can double their power on the same turn you bring them
out. Keep them close to your Illuminati! Even so, don't expect them to have
action tokens for very long.

Variants and Substitutions

    A lot of INWO players have a "no duplicates" house rule. This deck can
easily be modified for no duplicates; replace one of the Savings and Loan Scams
with, oh, X-Day, and Cyborg Soldiers with a Violent group of your choice. (The
Advanced Supersonic Aluminum Nazi Hell Creatures from Beneath the Hollow Earth
are thematically appropriate, and fun to say as well!)

    You can, of course, remove the Anti"Bob", and add Power for Its Own Sake or
Criminal Overlords to this deck If you do this, I suggest adding many more
defensive cards, since your opponents are more likely to gang up on you.
Optionally, you can take the sneaky approach: instead of removing the Anti"Bob",
work around it. You can hold extra Goals with "Alternate Goals", or simply
Unmask as Bavaria, in order to claim a win.

    Here's an idea to take full advantage of the "Slack extortion" theme. Put a
copy of "Slackfusion" in your deck. At some point during the game, put it on the
table, and declare, "Alright, everyone give me an Illuminati token... or else."
Those who give you Slack are spared from your wrath. Those who don't... aren't.
You could use this trick with this deck, but it would work better with a more
predatory deck. (A heavy-hitting Disaster deck would work particularly well for
this.)

Back to Deck of the Week
