Somebody Kill Me, Please!

by Darrin Bright
Illuminati

    UFOs 

Group Cards

    Center for Disease Control (x2)
    China
    Divine Mail Order
    Druids
    Elders of Zion
    Madison Avenue
    Reverend Ivan Stang
    Yetis
    Crystal Skull
    Holy Grail 

Plot Cards

    13013
    Are We Having Fun Yet? (x2)
    Blood, Sweat, Toil & Tears (x2)
    Crop Circles (x3)
    Forgery
    Let's Get Organized
    Media Blitz
    Mother's March
    Monopoly
    Murphy's Law
    Near Miss
    Pulitzer Prize
    Savings & Loans Scam
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know (x2)
    Sudden European Vacation
    Tape Runs Out
    This Was Only A Test
    Voodoo Economics
    GOAL: Arise! (x3)
    NWO/Yellow: Antitrust Legislation (x3)
    NWO/Red: Apathy (x2)
    NWO/Blue: Global Warming (x2) 

Overview

Tired of trying to get that Fratricide deck to work? Try this one instead. The
Subgenius goal Arise looks great if you can convince your opponents to eliminate
you, but usually what happens is whoever is in the lead gets picked on and cut
down to the point where he's no longer a threat, and then people lose interest
and start after whoever was the next strongest player. Few people get incensed
enough to go through the trouble to eliminate a player entirely. Well, instead
of goading your opponents into wiping you out, you're going to do all the work
for them.
Beginning

Lead with Madison Avenue. If it bounces try Divine Mail Order or Reverend Ivan
Stang. It doesn't matter too much what you lead with anyway, the killer combo in
this deck will work as long as you're able to bring out the Center For Disease
Control. Worry about that later, though. Once Madison Avenue is out, bring out
Divine Mail Order and start burning up tokens for plot draws. Put China on
Divine Mail Order and reload it with Rev. Ivan Stang. Save all your tokens for
plot draws, and don't get involved in any attacks, even if you're the one
defending. Sure, it sounds a little counter-productive, but don't worry about it
just yet. If your opponents destroy your groups, this will save you the trouble
of doing it for them.
Midgame

Now start looking for Arise! If you get multiple copies, hold onto them in case
your rivals discover and do away with one. If you don't have it yet, put out the
Druids and go digging for it with Crop Circles. Crop Circles is particularly
effective with Divine Mail Order. Once you've got Arise and you've got a CDC in
hand, you're ready for showtime.
Endgame

Bring out the CDC with your ATO and then bring out the Holy Grail with an
Illuminati action token. Pick a place controlled by a rival and put the name of
this place under the Holy Grail. This is your insurance policy for success, more
or less. If none of your rivals have any places, give them one by moving China
to Rev. Stang and moving him and China with a Sudden European Vacation.

The CDC is now ready for destruction by our hapless rival, but you need to make
sure the rest of your groups go with it. First things first, you need to
reorganize. You can do this by moving the groups individually by spending their
tokens, you can use the Elders of Zion special ability, or you can use Antitrust
Legislation.

Now you need a place to move them. The obvious choice is the CDC, but they don't
have a control arrow. Give them one with Let's Get Organized and you're ready
for biological warfare. Or, if Let's Get Organized isn't handy, the Yetis can be
controlled by any group that doesn't have control arrows, so move the Yetis over
to the CDC and hang everything else off of the Yetis. Or if the Druids are
protecting the CDC, move everything over to the Druids, who have a control arrow
ready and waiting.

Now launch an attack on the place protected by the Holy Grail with the CDC and
use biological warfare. The attack will fail, the CDC will be destroyed by the
rival you attacked, and all your groups will be destroyed along with it or sent
back to your hand. Arise! and claim victory.
Possible Complications

Look out for Interesting Times because it stops this deck cold. There's a couple
ways to deal with it. Get rid of it with Blood, Toil, Tears, and Sweat. You
could also hold onto Global Warming or a plot-canceler like Secrets or Tape Runs
Out. Science Alarmists might also be a problem if the owner knows what you're up
to. Otherwise play up the harmlessness of the CDC, or use AWHFY to shut them
down. In the unlikely event that the only place in play is immune to you (owned
by Discordia or Shangri-La has the Vatican in play), then AWHFY will also be a
great help here.

Ralph had a chance to playtest this deck a bit, and suggested putting in the
NPCs or the Citizens for Normalcy for more cancel power. I generally stay away
from the NPCs unless I've got a really good reason to include them because they
are impossible to hold on to, but as Ralph pointed out, there's no need to
defend them. Citizens for Normalcy might work out rather well with the UFOs
extra token.
Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: June 19, 1998

Last modified: Wed Jun 24 11:32:25 EDT 1998
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
