The Wonder Bread of Peace

by Steve Brinich

Concept: Shangri-La is the natural Illuminati for a Place deck, with its
defensive power. Combine this with the Flat Earthers (to strike Plot card gold
among those Places) and enough Science groups to supply pacifying Frankenfood.
Serve up the (chemically fortified and vitamin enriched) bread of peace.
Illuminati

    Shangri-La 

Group Cards

    Australia
    Canada
    Center For Disease Control
    Flat Earthers x2
    Germany
    International Weather Organization
    Japan
    Moonbase
    Orbit One
    Red Cross
    United Nations
    Vatican City
    The Big Prawn
    Center For Weird Studies
    Power Satellite
    Rogue Boomer 

Plot Cards

    Back To The Salt Mines x2
    A Brief Attack Of Conscience
    Citizenship Award
    Cold Fusion
    Computer Virus x3
    Emergency Powers
    Floating Point Error
    Frankenfood x2
    Hat Trick
    Hoax
    Hubble Trouble x2
    Kinder And Gentler x2
    Martyrs
    Near Miss x2
    Nobel Peace Prize
    Red Scare
    Supernova
    Waiting Period
    NWO: Chicken in Every Pot
    NWO: Peace in Our Time

Opening

As usual for Shangri-La, Japan is the obvious lead puppet. If you don't get it,
Germany and Vatican City are good backup leads -- Germany is probably better
because it is less expected and provides a bonus to take over Science groups.
Midgame
Groups

Bring out the International Weather Organization and/or Red Cross as soon as
possible; once it becomes obvious that you're playing a Place-heavy deck you
will be a natural target for Disasters. Each of these groups adds +6 to your
defense against Disasters (if you get them both, you'll have a total +17 defense
against Disasters, which should discourage anybody who hasn't stocked up on
Combined Disasters).

The ability of the Flat Earthers to give you extra Plot draws will become
important when your Power Structure is developed enough to support it. Bring
them out when you control 4-6 Places. Make them Kinder and Gentler, or make sure
your other Conservative groups are adequate to defend them.

The best time to use the Flat Earthers' special ability is when you have a
Computer Virus ready to modify the roll and/or a way to give them another action
token (Center For Weird Studies or Red Scare -- note that Red Scare can probably
reload another Conservative group at the same time).

Bring out Orbit One in the midgame, and place a Science group or two under its
control. This will give you extra Plot draws. It might also make your rivals
think that you're playing a Blinded By Science deck. This is a two-edged sword:
it misdirects your enemies, but also makes them paranoid about how close you
might be to victory.
Resources

The Power Satellite and/or The Big Prawn can be brought into play with Supernova
once you take over Orbit One and/or Moonbase.

Bring out the Rogue Boomer as soon as you get a good chance; it will help you
bring your Nations in line with the gospel of Peace Through Superior Firepower.
If you have both the Rogue Boomer and the United Nations, that's a net +11 to
take over a Nation.

You'll probably want to give the Power Satellite to Japan. The most effective
use for The Big Prawn is to link it to Australia or Germany and make it Peaceful
-- whichever one you choose can then use any one of your three Power-boosters
(Citizenship Award, Emergency Powers, Nobel Peace Prize) to give it 12 points of
Peaceful Power....
Plots

Back To The Salt Mines will help you take over more Places and help you defend
the ones you already control (unless one of your opponents has a BttSM of his
own, or a way to take away yours once it's exposed).

The Power boosters are used in a straightforward manner to increase the Power of
key groups.

Computer Virus can alter key rolls (it's particularly helpful when using the
Flat Earthers' special ability, since it can modify a roll that just missed into
one that lets you draw a lot of Plots or increase your Plot draw by two if you
rolled really low).

A Brief Attack Of Conscience is good for defending yourself against
Disaster-heavy decks; Floating Point Error help in defending yourself against
the Network. Hubble Trouble will block attempts to neutralize your Frankenfood
(or attempts to disturb the peace with the Orbital Mind Control Lasers) and
should also help against a hostile Network (many of the best Computer groups are
also Science).

Waiting Period should be saved for a key stroke against a troublesome Violent
group (like the KKK).
Endgame

Use the Flat Earthers to draw Plots, and make groups Peaceful with Kinder And
Gentler and Frankenfood. Note that Kinder And Gentler can be used on other
people's groups if you have lots of Peaceful Power or an Illuminati action;
Frankenfood only works on your own Places. It should be fairly easy to get to 30
Power.
Pitfalls

An opponent with a Science deck can neutralize your Frankenfood as fast as you
can dish it out. Use Hubble Trouble to stop enemy Science actions, or grab a key
Science group away from your rival (Japan and Germany will help here).

Watch out if one of your opponents is playing Cthulhu (he might have enough
Disasters to breach your defenses). In that case, avoid extending your Power
Structure too far until you get one of the groups that boosts your Disaster
defense, keep as many defensive cards (A Brief Attack Of Conscience, Computer
Virus, Hoax, Near Miss) in your hand as possible, and convince him to go after
softer targets.

A Network rival can be a problem. He'll want Japan, though this isn't that
serious -- even if he gets it, you can still build a good Power Structure and
Japan still benefits you as a powerful Peaceful group. The real problem is that
he might go after Moonbase, Orbit One, and the International Weather
Organization, stripping you of Science and Space groups and reducing your
Disaster defense. The two Space Places should be defensible, since they have
fairly good Resistance and no alignments (which makes it hard for anybody to aid
attacks against them). The International Weather Organization will be more
vulnerable (especially against a "Cyber Rights Now!" Network/Liberal deck); it
may be wise to forego playing it rather than have it (and its Disaster-boosting
ability) fall into enemy hands.
Deck Variations

This deck as written uses five rares (Australia, Canada, Germany, Red Cross and
The Big Prawn). The Big Prawn is the most important; include it if at all
possible. If you can't get the Red Cross, add another Disaster-defense card to
compensate. Other Places (preferably Coastal Nations) can be substituted for
Australia, Canada, and Germany (in which case you will probably want to change
the selection of Power-boosters to fit the new group mix).

Other cards that might be useful in this deck include Al Amarja (a Place with a
useful Disaster-defense ability), Stonehenge (a Place that gives immunity to
anything Magic) the Holy Grail (protects a Place), and World Cup Victory (+10
card for Nations).
Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: January 31, 1997

Last modified: February 6, 1997
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
