The Snake People from Outer Space
by Christian Stenner

That is not dead which can eternally fly…
Card Data
Illuminati:

    UFOs

Groups:

    Connie Dobbs
    Dr. K'Taden Legume
    Fraternal Orders
    Jesus B.
    Lama Ramadingdong
    Local Clenches
    Newt Gingrich
    OverMan Philo Drummond
    Reverend Ivan Stang
    Secret FisTemples
    St. Janor Hypercleats
    Xists

Resources:

    Immortality Serum x2

Plots:

    Alien Abduction x6
    Crop Circles
    Deasil Engine x2
    Eternal Salvation or Triple Your Money Back
    Goal: The Anti-"Bob"
    Goal: Brag of the SubGenius x2
    Miraculous Manifestation x2
    NWO: World Hunger x2
    NWO: A Thousand Points of Light (optional)
    NWO: The Magic Goes Away
    Official, Divine, All-Inclusive Excuse
    Read my Lips
    Savings & Loans Scam x4
    SMWNMTK x3
    Tape Runs Out

Strategy
The Plan

    This is my weirdest deck so far. It is the Snake People from Outer Space
deck. And it really works. The main trick is quite common and it is quite
necessary that nobody else uses it - (if someone does, stomp him into the ground
with your duplicates).

    The deck relies on the Connie Dobbs controls Dr.K`Taden Legume trick. Connie
makes the Doctor undestroyable and the Doctor immunizes all SubGenius
personalities, except himself, against any kind of attack - "any kind" includes
instant attacks!

Opening Game

    Lead with Connie and use Fraternal Orders, Miraculous Manifestations and UFO
tokens get to Doctor K'Taden Legume. Go ahead, you need to draw all those cards
anyway. Put K'Taden into his rightful place controlled by Connie. Then continue
to take over other Subgenius personalities and make them puppets of the Doctor
or his puppets, or their puppets, etc.

    Thus the snake from outer space is built up. Philo Drummond's special
ability lets other weirdoes join the fun of being unattackable.

Midgame

    If someone tries to attack you, he has to either choose one the groups you
do not really need for winning like the Fraternal Orders or they need to attack
Philo Drummond to control. No player will want any other player to control
Philo, because he'll by then have too many puppets. If someone really makes it
alone to a die roll to control K'Taden, use your Read my Lips or Official Excuse
to stop him - other players will willing join your cause at least not cancelling
your defense.

    Only a few cards can punch a hole in the protection afforded by the
Connie-K'Taden combo. You have Deasil Engine to deal with Orbital Mind Control
Lasers, while the rest, (AWHFY and alignment changers - including Alien
Abduction), can be cancelled.

    Bring out the Immortality Serums, get the plot drawing cards and especially
as many of your groups cards into your hand as you can. You can also bring in
some organisations on the other arrows of the UFOs. The Saucer Landing Strip
should go to the other arrow of Connie Dobbs for protection. Wait for the right
moment for the end game.

End Game

    Once everything is built up, you should try to get the last three or four
groups in one fell swoop order to win, while still having enough cards in hand
to defend against any earthlings trying to save that little blue planet.

    On the turn you decide to win, make an automatic take-over of an
organisation. Next step is to draw plot cards using Savings&Loan Scams. Then use
your UFO tokens to bring in another Immortality Serum, draw another group card
or play Alien Abductions. The latter can also be played with your space groups.
If you still need tokens on you space groups, use the token moving abilities of
your groups.

    Thus bring in as many personalities as possible into your structure. Show
your Brag of the SubGenius goal and announce victory with probably more than
enough groups.

Potential Problems

    This deck is rather slow and works better, if at least five players are
around. In a three or two player game you can contribute nearly nothing to any
attempt to stop a fast powerplayer. If someone else depends on the same trick as
you, you will have to prove that you really are a good player. Upheavals and
paralyzes should be useless against your winning move - you should have more
groups than necessary in your power structure.

    The Phone Phreaks are rather devastating, too, but the World Hunger stops
them completely. The Fraternal Orders were chosen over the www.SubGenius.Com,
because they have no global power and are neither computer nor SubGenius - so
you do not get into the situation of using the token for anything else but
drawing groups and you won't be attacked by Networks with their huge bonuses.

    The Anti-Bob only has the use to give you another UFO token on your winning
move, or in times of need, Jesus B. can provide another token, but is very
expensive. Illuminati tokens are very helpful against paralyze cards. You only
have 3 groups in the deck that count double for Brag of the Subgenius, and no
way to increase power, but even if you don't have all of these groups under
control, the goal is still worth having.

    You will probably have enough groups to win on your winning move regardless
of Interesting Times. The Magic Goes Away cards are there to stop too fast
opponents. The Deasil Engines should show the folks an Orbital Mind Control
Laser cannot change Connie's mind. And as always, if nothing else helps, a
little Secrets here and a tape running out there will help you, (pay with an UFO
token - you have two per turn, at least).

    If you do not win on your first victory grab for some silly reason, be
patient. Your rivals still cannot attack you and that is not dead which can
eternally fly…

Variants and Substitutions

    The deck was created as a fifty cards deck with twelve groups to win, but
depending on your playgroup several cards are rather optional, e.g., if
Interesting Times is very common in your cabal, then add some of the blue NWOs.
        Cattle Mutilators
        Immortality Serum
        NWO: World Hunger x2
        NWO: The Magic Goes Away

    If your group likes the use of the Cattle Mutilators as a lead group, as
mine does, then include it in your deck and lead with it in order to block other
copies of them. (In my opinion, the Cattle Mutilators are broken, because they
easily destroy the secrecy of the game, and because we do not want to know the
others what exactly we are about to do).

Experience

    Experience I played several times with this deck, winning most of the games
with controlling lots and lots of groups and even having groups in the fifth
line. If your power structure extends over the table to your opponents, you will
know what it is like to play the unstoppable snake.

    Christian

Editors Notes

    The "reverends" deck, a.k.a. the "K'Tonnie" deck, of which Christians deck
is a brilliant example, is one of the strong decks created by the SubGenius set.
Another way of creating a K'Tonnie deck is using personalities only. The
philosophy behind this approach is that the special defense has to cover every
group in order for it to be really efficient.

    Naturally, the 6 SubGenius personalities should be used, as well as a few
weird ones as puppets of Philo Drummond. The deck can expand reasonably quickly
using Rants, while everything else should be dedicated to boosting K'Tadens
defense. False Overmen (on both Connie and K'Taden) will increase K'Tadens
resistance bonus. Other cards like Commitment, Messiah and Cyborg Soldiers will
also help. Finally, being Shangri-La and packing a Sacred Stencil too.

    A good thing about that many personalities in the same deck is that when you
draw your duplicates of the good personality plots, you'll still have someone to
play them on. Brag of the SubGenius is an obvious goal choice, and the more
adventurous might throw in Anti"Bob" in case a destructive opportunity knocks

Back to Deck of the Week
