INWO Deck -- General Disorder Rides Again
by Mad Chris

The Deck
A Society of Assassins Production
Starring

    General Disorder 

Featuring

    Church of Violentology
    Dittoheads
    Moral Minority
    Nephews of God
    Professional Sports
    Reformed Church of Satan
    Religious Reich
    Rosicrucians
    South American Nazis
    TV Preachers
    Vatican City 

Filmed in Glorious

    Orgone Grinder Vision 

Special Thanks

    Annual Convention
    Charismatic Leader
    Commitment
    Crusade (x2)
    Good Polls
    Hat Trick
    Hit & Run
    Jihad (x2)
    Messiah
    New Blood
    Read My Lips (x2)
    Rewriting History
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know
    Slush Fund (x2)
    Sucked Dry & Cast Aside (x3)
    Sudden European Vacation
    Truck Bomb
    Volcano
    You Are What You Eat 

Original Story by

    NWO Yellow: End of the World
    NWO Yellow: Law & Order 

Screenplay by

    NWO Red: Australian Rules
    NWO Red: Solidarity 

Casting by

    NWO Blue: World Hunger 

Produced by

    Goal: Let Them Eat Cake 

Directed by

    Society of Assassins 

(k) 6AA Mad Chris Productions. All the characters and events in this deck are
completely true, and any similarity to world events - secret or otherwise - is
completely intentional.

Strategy
There are two ways to play this deck: either for an all out win, or for fun -
taking a win if it floats your way. I recommend the latter, not least of all
because this is the easiest way to win. The more you get into your role of
raising General Disorder's Power & Resistance, the less seriously the other
players will take you and the more chance you have of sneaking in a suprise win.

Act I, Scene I: The Birth of a Legend
Lead with General Disorder. If the General bounces, panic. Lead the Rosicrutians
and get him out as quickly as possible. Although the deck can be played without
him, he is the centre of the deck's action, and you should ensure that at all
times you can do a good job of protecting him.

The Rosicrucians are your only Secret group, so be sure to 'tut' when someone
plays a Secret group and they no longer count double for you. You don't need
them to count double, so it's important to make it look like you wanted them to.
Don't overdo it though!

Act I, Scene II: The Rise to Power
As quickly as possible, you should play the following cards on your hero:

    Commitment
    New Blood 

At an appropriate time you are also looking to make him the Messiah, but this
can wait until you've got several Churches already in play. When it comes to
playing churches, play Conservative churches in preference to all other kinds
(assuming you have a choice), followed by Fanatic churches.

Act I, Scene III: The Path to Glory
You should aim to lead Groups in roughly the following order, varying according
to what you need in play to combat the other players:

    General Disorder (lead group, if possible)
    Rosicrucians
    Nephews of God
    Professional Sports
    South American Nazis
    Conservative Churches (Religious Reich, Vatican City)
    Fanatic Churches (TV Preachers, Reformed Church of Satan, Church of
Violentology)
    Moral Minority 

The Dittoheads and the Orgone Grinder are a special case which we will discuss
later.

The Rosicrucians should be brought out early as there are specific plots you
will want at specific times, and the Rosicrucians are a direct line to them. The
Nephews of God put you up to averaging 1.42 Groups per turn without you having
to spend Action tokens. They're both Conservative and Fanatic, which is ideal
for your deck, and don't give away what you are up to.

All the other Groups (except the Moral Minority) are there to boost General
Disorder in some way. The Moral Minority is included because they are both
Conservative and Fanatic, but are a minimal priority because just about every
other group is more useful to you. Also, bringing them out late allows you to
use the TV Preachers to take them over - and they are the only group which the
TV Preacher's special ability is useful for!

Act II, Scene I: The Plan
Your basic trick is to use Sucked Dry & Cast Aside on the General, giving him x
4 Power for one Action. You make attacks to destroy groups in other people's
power structures - ideally Liberal groups - and after the dust settles, the
General returns to your power structure more or less intact.

If you have You Are What You Eat in your hand, you can also use attacks to
destroy to take control of enemy groups. Make an attack to destroy using Sucked
Dry and Cast Aside on the General. Afterwards, play You Are What You Eat. The
destroyed Group joins your power structure where the General used to be, and you
get him back at the end of the turn!

Act II, Scene II: The Plot Thickens
To help you get really carried away, you can use Truck Bomb in conjunction with
Sucked Dry and Cast Aside to create truly deadly Instant attacks to destroy!

And if anyone destroys or devastates a place (including you with your Volcano),
the General's special blend of Wierd Science allow you to do the same with
Annual Convention - even if it's not your own turn.

These two cards in conjunction with Sucked Dry and Cast Aside allow you to
perform truly devastating instant attacks to destroy organisations.

Act II, Scene III: The Heights of Power
Your maximum Power & Resistance using this deck is a Power 46, Resistance 38
General Disorder. This is achieved as follows:

    GD has New Blood on him (Power -> 6)
    GD has Commitment on him (Resistance -> 8)
    GD controled by South American Nazis (+3 Power)
    GD controls the Dittoheads (+2 Power, x 3 Resistance)
    GD linked to Professional Sports (+3 Power)
    GD linked to Messiah (+4 Power, +4 Resistance)
    5 Churches in Play (+10 Power, +10 Resistance)
    GD plays Sucked Dry and Cast Aside (x4 Power)
    Power = (6 x 4)+3+2+3+4+10 = 46
    Resistance = (8 x 3)+4+10 = 38 

Without the Sucked Dry and Cast Aside the math is:

    Power = 6+3+2+3+4+10 = 28
    Resistance = (8 x 3)+4+10 = 38 

Obviously, higher totals are possible if you add in the Church of Elvis,
Recording Industry and you include Never Surrender and get General Disorder to
be Fanatic. This is left as an exercise to the psychotic student.

Note that the +10 cards in the deck are NOT for use with General Disorder. The
bulk of the deck is a blend of Conservative churches, Fanatic churches and
Conservative Fanatic groups. The three types of +10 are intended to be used with
these groups, and specifically in the endgame (see below).

Act III, Scene I: Under Attack
There are three ways you will come under attack:

1. Attempts to take General Disorder away from you.
2. Attempts to kill General Disorder permanently.
3. Attempts to undo the General's power

The first method can be protected against by using Read My Lips - or by playing
Sucked Dry and Cast Aside on him in his own defense. However, even if you lose
control of him, The South American Nazis, backed by your Fanatical Global Power
should take him back with ease.

If you fear that sooner or later they are going to try and take him away from
you, it is time to play the Dittoheads. It is worth saving them until you think
they are necessary, however, as it is awkward to have to keep getting them out
every time you use Sucked Dry and Cast Aside.

The second method is more tricky. Your Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know should
be saved for defense against just this kind of attack, and Sudden European
Vacation can also be just what the doctor ordered to help protect from a card
being used to knock out the General.

If you know that your group uses Paralyse cards, then you can resort to linking
him to the Orgone Grinder. This gives him the Power 6 that the New Blood would
normally give him, but takes away his Alignments and hence his vulnerability.
You can always unlink him on your turn, if you intend to use Sucked Dry and Cast
Aside (if he is linked to the Orgone Grinder when he gets sucked, it will be
destroyed).

Similarly, if they undo your New Blood, you may be forced to use the Orgone
Grinder as a life support machine. It is most useful as a backup.

Act III, Scene II: Going Psycho
The primary use of the Rewriting History is to convert a destroyed non-Liberal
group into a Liberal group for the purpose of Let Them Eat Cake. However, it can
also be used to make the General a Fanatic, thus giving him Global Power equal
to his regular power. Simply wait until he's dead once again, then play the
Rewriting History with your Illuminati action to make him Fanatic. When he comes
back, he'll be permanently Fanatic, because the wording on General Disorder
allows him to keep all changes, for good or bad.

Act III, Scene III: The Finale
Obviously, you are intended to use Let Them Eat Cake to win, but if this isn't
possible, give up on the path of destruction, get the General to control the
Dittoheads and/or be linked to the Orgone grinder and take control of the
largest chunk of enemy Power Structure you can lay your hands on. If your
opponents have let you get set up, it'll prove particularly hard to stop you.

The Crusades, Jihads and Slush Funds mean that despite the image you should have
fostered in the early stages of the game, the rest of your groups aren't just
there to boost General Disorder. In fact, by the time the end game comes up, you
should find you can get +20s with at least one of your groups, and possibly more
than one. Since up until this point you've been focussed on the General, most
people are likely to have not paid attention to what the rest of your power
structure is capable, and you can use this to bring the General's forced in for
final victory.

Epilogue
A word of warning about The South American Nazis: although you do give the
General +3 Power whilst he is controlled by them, you should be careful about
when you do this. If he is not controlled by your Illuminati, it is obviously
that much easier to take him, or to take both him and the Nazis, which could be
disastrous.

As a general rule, if you have Sudden European Vacaction or any other defense,
it's probably safe to have him controlled by the Nazis. But keep a control arrow
open on your Society of Assassins whenever possible.

The General's ability to spend his Action to give +10 to a Disaster, which can
then only devastate, is mostly useless to you. But if someone tries to destroy
Vatican City, or if you are up against a Disaster-rich Cthulhu, you can always
use this ability to thwart any attempt to destroy using Disasters by insuring
that they can only devastate!

The INWOs included give you a good range of response, from the defensive
(Solidarity) to the offensive (World Hunger). Both of your Yellow NWOs (Law &
Order and End of the World) are most useful to you in the endgame, to boost the
bulk of your power structure, but if you need to use them earlier you should
feel free.

You should try and use your variety of NWOs to remain in control of the pace of
the game: if when you first attack someone you can play Australian Rules first,
you can encourage other players to throw in "just a little power" so they can
get plot cards. This will make the player being picked on more likely to believe
that they are being picked on by everyone at the table and less likely to take
retribution out on you specifically (especially if you later on point out that
so-and-so did throw in power against them in that attack earlier in the
game...). The more you are able to manipulate the psychology of the players you
are playing with, the more success you will have - and the NWOs are a good tool
for this.

Changes in the Video Version
You can't build this deck without at the very least General Disorder, some
Sucked Dry and Cast Asides and the Society of Assassins. Let Them Eat Cake and
the South American Nazis are also fairly central. There is room for change with
other cards:

    Church of Violentology is mainly used as a church. Replace with Church of
Elvis.
    Orgone Grinder can be replaced with your favourite resource. Orbital Mind
Control Lasers are a good choice, and the Perpetual Motion Machine is another
option. 

A fairly general Group replacement is the Recording Industry, which gives
General Disorder an extra +1 Power. If you are in need of additional Groups to
plug gaps, put in some reasonably decent Conservative groups - the Republicans
are not bad in this role.

    Rewriting History can be changed for Hidden Influence (although this
obviously cannot be used to help you fulfill Let Them Eat Cake).
    Sudden European Vacation can be replaced with an Are We Having Fun Yet.
    Annual Convention, Truck Bomb, and just about any other plots you may be
missing could be replaced with Terrorist Nukes or your favourite generic Plot
cards. 

If you have a lot of Plots to replace, you might like to consider including
Unmasked (assuming you have one) and a Servants of Cthulhu.

Lastly, I encourage your to play with the deck design - extemporise! Think
wildly! Play with the cards you enjoy playing with, because the only thing
better than winning is having fun - and the only thing better than having fun is
having fun and STILL winning!

Mad Chris.

(With thanks to Aaron Curtis for the Rewriting History schtick, and to whoever
suggested using You Are What You Eat on top of the General Disorder/Sucked Dry
and Cast Aside schtick).

Back to the Deck of the Week.
