The Granddaddy of all Cockroaches
by Kevin Kennedy

On another planet somewhere sentient life evolve form insects. And they are none
too pleased with the way their brethren have been treated on this planet…
Card Data
Illuminati:

    UFOs

Groups:

    Clone Arrangers
    Rosicrucians
    Men in Black
    Local Police Departments

Resources:

    Cyborg Soldiers
    Mercenaries
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers
    Perpetual Motion Machine

Plots:

    …Or Kill Me
    Big Score
    Bribery
    Cold Fusion x2
    Comet "Hail" Bob
    Cover of Darkness
    Cover Up x2
    Deasil Engine
    Go Fish
    GOAL: Arise!
    GOAL: Fratricide
    Murphy's Law
    NWO: Don't Forget to Smash the State x2
    NWO: Magic Goes Away x3
    NWO: World Hunger x2
    Savings and Loans Scam
    Schizm x2
    Secrets Man was not Meant to Know
    Seize the Time
    Sorry Wrong Number x2
    Swiss Bank Account
    Tape Runs Out x2
    Truck Bomb x2
    Upheaval x3

Strategy
The Plan

    This is a tight, competitive deck. It might not seem like great fun to play
because there aren’t a lot of groups to play around with but I like it because
it is very aggressive. This deck is very much about getting a lot of action
going on, getting the other players to attack each other, and wreaking havoc.
That and its completely counter-intuitive design are what I like best about this
deck.

Opening Game

    You lead with the Clone Arrangers, and pray for a little luck. If they
bounce, which is expected, that’s fine. There are only eight group cards in the
deck so they’ll be the first group card you draw. If they bounce your lead is
the Rosicrucians. If that’s not an option then there’s trouble. That probably
means you’re going for Arise!

    On your first turn you want to ato the Rosicrucians or the Clone Arrangers
(depending) and use your illuminati action to bring out the Perpetual Motion
Machine. Which you will, of course, be linking to your illuminati.

    Do nothing else except perhaps negotiate with the other players and try to
subtly encourage them to attack one another. This deck is highly dependent on
scheming with your opponents and keeping them at each other’s throats. You might
want to offer your clone arrangers action token to assist in an early attack on
an opponent if the opportunity occurs.

Midgame

    In the second turn spend the illuminati action you have saved to draw a plot
and use the Rosicrucians action to pull Magic Goes Away. Ato the Local Police
Departments off of the Rosicrucians’ arrow. This keeps them active while Magic
Goes Away is in play. Whether you want to play Magic Goes Away immediately is up
to you. You do have a pretty good chance of attacking to control the MiBs from
hand on this turn or the next (Clone Arrangers (6+4) + Ufos (6) –MiBs (6) for
10) but that highly depends on whether you can keep your rivals from interfering
(Offering future assistance in attacks and other kinds of "bribes" are a
possible option here). Personally, I prefer to play Magic Goes Away as soon as
possible.

    Another option here is to pull Seize the Time from your deck this turn and
play it to quickly ato the MiBs and then play the Magic Goes Away, then use an
illuminati token to take over the OMCLs if you can. (Editors note: Strictly
speaking, you are not allowed to play tMGA on your Seize the Time turn, but you
can play it when the turn has ended). The PMM and the OMCLs might be hard to get
(and keep) so you might want to pull a Deasil Engine and Cover of Darkness from
your deck if you get the chance.

Endgame

    The rest of the game is about whittling down your opponents to achieve
Fratricide. (Of course you’re going to want to bring out the other two resources
in the deck and link the Cyborg Soldiers to the Clone Arrangers. You might also
want to relink the PMM to the Clone Arrangers as well.)

    You want to get and keep Magic Goes Away as early and as much as possible.
Then you want to encourage your opponents to go for each others throats. You
have a lot in your deck you can use to offer as incentive. Sorry, Wrong Number,
Schizm, and Bribery make excellent tools for this purpose. Not to mention UFO
action tokens and the powerful Clone Arrangers to lead attacks. Comet Hail
"Bob", the other NWOs, and Murphy’s Law are for keeping your opponents down.

    You also have two Truck Bombs at your disposal and a Cyborg Soldiered Clone
Arrangers. Another very useful trick in this deck is to aid a Schizmed attack to
destroy with the Men in Black. Although the target will only be discarded the
Men in Black’s special ability will ensure that you never see them again. Also
don’t underestimate your ability to attack to control. Controlled groups from
your enemies are excellent upheaval fodder. One of my favorite things about this
deck is that a usually unassailable Subgenius Personality deck falls apart after
I attack to control Dr. K’Taden Legume.

    As far as defense is concerned you’re in good shape. Most of your power
structure is secret. The one non-secret group you have is indestructible and
also violent, meaning the Clone Arrangers can protect them if necessary. There
are two Cover Ups in the deck and Murphy’s Law can also be use to defensively.

    Arise has several good uses in this deck. First and foremost it does offer
you a victory option. Secondly it gives you something which you can barter with.
A shared victory is still a victory and it could make things that much easier
for you. Thirdly it gives you a last line of defense and a way out. Exposing
Arise is a sure fire way of keeping the other players from eliminating you (it’s
also safer exposed).

    Now Upheaval has a very important role in this deck. It’s the easiest way to
finish of your opponents and thus win with fratricide. If everything goes
according to plan you can keep your opponents down to one to three groups, in
which case you have enough puppets in your power structure to Upheaval yourself
to victory. It also provides you with a very sneaky way of winning with Arise!:
The last thing you want is a successful attack against the Clone Arrangers but
if that should all you need to is play Upheaval before the dice are rolled,
discard the Rosicrucians and you’ve been eliminated from the game. Or if your
opponents should be so unwary as to deprive of the Rosicrucians you can upheaval
and discard the Clone Arrangers. Furthermore Upheaval makes an excellent threat
against attacks. As soon as your opponent seems to be successful Upheaval and
discard the would be target. Of course, you should give them fair warning and in
that way you can blame them for all the damage upheaval has done and you don’t
look as much like a spiteful jerk.

Potential Problems

    Of course nothing goes as well as planned and several things can go wrong.
This deck is very dependent on the Clone Arrangers and they are a popular group.
The sacrifices I’ve made with the group deck leave me feeling confident that
I’ve reduced the risk of not getting them as much as possible. If you don’t the
best advice I can offer you is to conspire with your opponents to get them. Of
course losing them is pretty unthinkable without the Upheaval/Arise save.

    There is only one copy of each goal in this deck, so protect them. If
someone sees that you have Arise in your hand, go ahead and expose it. There are
so many ways you can lose an unexposed plot and there is really only one
particular way to lose an exposed goal: the Templars. Kill the Templars. They’re
secret (little interference), conservative (not popular with their secret
buddies) and people will thank you for it.

Variants & Substitutions

    The German plot supplement in the deck was during playtest with Christian
Stenners INWO cabal. The group uses a 50 card deck, and games are often flooded
with Interesting Times.
        Arise!
        Interesting Times x2
        Savings and Loans Scam x2

    Good Luck

Editors Notes

    This is the first DotW utilising the goal Fratricide. Naturally, the key
plot is Upheaval, which looks like the only viable way to bring about a
fratracide. And wherever there is Upheaval, NOW: The Magic Goes Away is a strong
companion.

    Another higly efficient but also higly degenerate way of making an
Upheaval/Fratricide is to pack only a few key groups, and a plot deck containing
roughly 1/3 SMWNMTKs and 2/3 Upheavals. The tactic is pretty simple: play more
Upheavals than your rivals can take over groups, bringing down the house on turn
3, when lack of groups will destroy your rivals.

    The deck is a UFO deck, so that you can play 2 (or even 3 - with PPM)
Upheavals each turn. Your ATOs should be groups with abilities that can be used
immediately, since you will be discarding your own groups soon enough. A good
example is Bank of England, which will immediately let you draw more Upheavals.

    Your tactics will vary depending on your place in the turn order. If you go
last/4th, simply blast away. Your rivals will be eliminated at the end of their
3rd turn, so that you win before being eliminated yourself. If you go third, you
can also blast away, as long as you can get to your Fratricide goal before the
end of your third turn, (ATO the Rosicrucians?).

    If you go 1st or 2nd, then you'll need to be able to defend yourself a bit
on turn 3. On your 3rd turn, ATO the "Bobbies", since they can not be discarded
by your own Upheavals. Your group less rivals should have a hard time attacking
your "Bobbies" while being targeted with still more Upheavals, and as they each
perish after their 3rd turn, they will not be able to gang-up on you.

    Simple - but admittedly vulnerable to Nevermore!

Back to Deck of the Week
