Playing Shangri-La - The Judo Deck

Shangri-La's key strength is that it encourages cooperation and discourages
competition (with itself). Unlike the rest of the illuminati, one Shangri-La
player has it in his best interests to help any other Shangri-La player - or
anyone else who is playing peaceful groups. Since you don't have to control the
groups in order to win, you have more diplomatic options than the player of,
say, Bavaria.

To continue the above, note that Shangri-La's +5 to defend against any attack
not only makes it unappealing as a victim, but also allows it to control weaker
groups than other illuminati's. Shangri-La is hence unlikely to be picked on, as
it is more valuable as an ally than as an enemy. This is actually enhanced by
the prohibition on destroying non-violent groups, as it downplays the potential
threat of attack from a strong Shangri-La. In the end, the Shangri-La can help
its opponents grow stronger, only to use their own power against them to seize
the game. This last is the key to the following Shangri-La deck idea: the Judo
Deck.

The Judo Deck

Judo, or "the gentle way", is a Japanese sport which is based primarily on the
idea of using one's opponent's strength against him. This deck uses this, along
with other techniques, to allow a clever player to make his way to world
domination.

The Deck Itself

Plots:
    Forgery 
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know 
    Reorganization 
    Clone 
    Power Grab 
    Good Polls x 2 
    Early Warning 
    Talisman of Ahrimanes 
    Volunteer Aid 
    Martial Law 
    Martyrs x 3 
    World Cup Victory 
    Charismatic Leader 
    Emergency Powers 
    Citizenship Award 
    New Blood 
    Kinder and Gentler x 2 
    Messiah 
    Let's Really Get Organized x 2 
    Goal: Kill For Peace 
    NWO: (Red) Peace in Our Time x 2 
    NWO: (Red) Solidarity 
    NWO: (Blue) A Chicken in Every Pot 
Resources:
    Angel's Feather 
    The Bronze Head 
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers 
Groups:
    Recording Industry 
    Empty Vee 
    Bjorne 
    Canada 
    Antiwar Activists 
    Red Cross 
    Goldfish Fanciers 
    AMA 
    Fnord Motor Company 
    Moonies 
    Vatican City 
    Japan 

Ideas for playing the Judo Deck

The Beginning

Two good lead groups are Japan (a strong lead, though common) and the Vatican.
The Vatican is weaker, but its ability to defend your structure against any
peaceful attacks is at least marginally helpful. Getting one of these out right
away can enable you to keep enough strength to do the rest of your dirty work,
while also allowing you to play your diplomatic role as helper/spoiler.

The key to the early game is to come out strong, get some key groups out, then
back off. You can afford to make an early show of strength because your
opponents will be weak themselves, and your +5 defense bonus combined with your
defensive cards makes you too tough to take on. Be careful, though: once you
make your initial surge, you must back off, or else you will get taken out by
mob politics. The best strategy is to get real excited and arrogant the first
few rounds (scaring people off), then get really dejected and upset at "your bad
luck". Act like there are lots and lots of REALLY strong groups in your deck,
and you keep getting these "weak" groups (like the Red Cross, and Bjorne)
instead. Don't, of course, overdo it. Just make sure that, by the mid-game, you
have a few powerful cards out and some key resources (like the Mind Control
Lasers). You will be disaster bait early on, so go ahead and use your defenses;
it is key that you convince your opponents that yours is a very strong defensive
deck, and that, while you won't attack them, they can't attack you easily,
either.

The Middle

Once you have accomplished your early-game goals, there are a number of possible
options...which ones you use will depend on what you draw and what your
opponents are up to. One is to use groups such as the Goldfish Fanciers,
Vatican, etc. to expand your natural defenses into full scale immunities. Once
these cards are in play, it should be very hard for your opponents to attack
your structure. This can be further aided by the addition of the Orbital Mind
Control Lasers. Hopefully, you've gotten them out by this point, but if not, do
try to place them as soon as possible. You've got a Forgery to use in case
someone else (especially Bermuda) gets theirs' out first - use it. The Lasers
should definately be in any SL deck, not only because they can aid your victory
condition, but also because almost any SL deck will contain some card which
grants immunity (or effective immunity) to certain alignments. In this case,
threaten to use the Lasers to change the alignment of any attacking group to
Peaceful (if you've got the Vatican out) or else Fanatic (if you've got the
Fancier's). The first time you do this, let it come as a surprise...goad your
opponent into putting everything into a mass assault, then change the alignment
at the last minute. I guarantee they won't try it again. :-)

The Angel's Feather can also serve as a nice deterrent, as it allows any of your
peaceful groups to reroll failures (and successful attacks against them).
Likewise, a Peace in Our Time (you have two, and one should be used relatively
early-on in the game) can keep your opponents off-balance and add to your own
defense. The best deterrant, however, is always good politics. Make sure that
you keep your opponents focussed on each other...always portray yourself as
being strong, but not the strongest. (Moan about having a "bad deck day" a lot.)
Offer to make deals, and to help your opponents out...the Lasers, for instance,
may be used for this. Many of the groups you possess have such "selling
points"...the Moonies, for instance, can disrupt priviledged attacks. That
interference is worth something: sell it.

While you are wheeling and dealing, you should develop another sub-plot of this
deck: the media groups. This is not, of course, a media deck per se, but it does
make use of superstar Bjorne along with some well-chosen accomplices (Empty Vee
and the Recording Industry). Get Bjorne out, as well as one or both of those
media groups, then play a Reorganization if possible and a Let's Really Get
Organized to place Bjorne securely in control of both groups. At this point,
play a Messiah (if you can) and turn Bjorne into a truly frighteningly powerful
personality! Assassination attempts are likely here, but if you have placed
Bjorne properly then he will be too strong to be brought down easily...if he
needs help, use Martyrs or a Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know. Without a doubt,
Bjorne's status as Messiah will annoy everyone present, but if his control
arrows are filled with other groups he isn't much of a direct threat, and you
should be able to convince everyone that his value is primarily defensive.

To move on to the end-game, then, let's review what has to be done in the
mid-game. It's important to get at least one of the powerful resources out
(preferrably the Lasers) and to build up some immunities. At the same time, it's
important to build your reputation as a negotiator and a spoiler, someone who is
powerful enough to make a difference in the game, but not powerful enough to
grab the win outright. Taking the role of the player whose deack isn't as strong
as it's supposed to be can help this. If possible, also, Bjorne needs to be
brought out and pumped up...otherwise, some other of your groups need to be
pumped up to provide the power for the end-game rush. Oh yes, and there is one
last thing you must do: destroy, somewhere along the line, one violent group.
Don't ask why, just do it, the earlier the better. This will provide the power
for your backdoor strategy, should you need it....

The End-Game

Now for the fun. By now you should be close to your goal...especially if you've
used (or gotten someone else to use) a Chicken in Every Pot or Peace in Our
Time. If you can afford the power loss, play a Solidarity. At this point it will
make your structure pretty much immune to attack, and it will also "freeze the
game" making it harder for your opponents to win and easier for you to sell your
interference.

This is where the "Judo" deck's main theme emerges.

To obtain victory, recall that you need only have peaceful groups with a total
power of 30 in play...you don't need to control them. Recall also that your deck
is stacked with a wide array of power-boosters, including Charismatic Leader,
Citizenship Award, Emergency Powers, etc. Some of these should be played on your
own groups (remember that the rule said "peaceful" groups, not "peaceful only")
but some should be saved for use on your opponents'. Once it looks as though one
of your opponents is approaching his victory condition, announce that you have
lost all hope of winning and instead seek to act as a spoiler. Now boost the
power of one or two of another opponent's groups, just so that he's nearly at
his victory condition. Then, once he is occupied with sealing his victory, use
the Bjorne tokens (or any that you've got available) to power a Kinder and
Gentler or two, making the groups you just pumped into peaceful ones. If you've
played your cards right (ha ha), this will be unexpected and your opponents will
have no way of dealing with it.

But why, you might ask, go this route? Because, of course, the only way for the
opposition to stop you is to attack someone else's power structure. Thus, even
if you lose, you still win because your opponents are weakened by struggling
with each other. If you have been lucky, then you will have been able to do the
above by simply changing the alignment of an opponent's pumped up group without
having to do the pumping yourself, and are free to enhance your own groups to
seal the win. Likewise, if you happen to have another Peace in Our Time or
Chicken in Every Pot, you may be able to push the total power of Peaceful groups
over 30 without your rivals being able to do much of anything about it. If worse
comes to worst, you can always use those Lasers to change those last few
points...

But what if none of these things are working? Let's say that your opponents are
on to you, and that they've somehow managed to block your strategy (perhaps by
changing the alignment of your own groups) or else that they are developing too
fast for your Judo method to work. At times like these, you need a backdoor
strategy, and this deck's is the Kill for Peace goal card. Note that, to obtain
victory, you need only control 6 peaceful groups and destroy 2 violent ones. If
you followed the mid-game strategy of killing off one violent group, you should
have no trouble acheiving this goal. Best yet, if you do it in retaliation, no
one is likely to notice until it's too late...and, even if they do, a Martyrs
may be enough to ensure that the job goes off properly. This isn't, of course,
very much in accordance with "the gentle way", but that's the way you have to be
when you want to rule the world...

Conclusion

In the end, Shangri-La is perhaps the most insidious of the Illuminati. Its
goals allow it to reach right into its rivals' power structures and benefit from
their own strength, while its special power keeps its own hierarchy safe from
interference. While this short document shows only the tip of the iceburg where
the use of Shangri-La is concerned, it may nevertheless serve to illuminate the
path to victory for those with the skill to use it properly.

Carter Butts
eagle@acpub.duke.edu

Back to the Deck of the Week.
