The Valley of the Shadow of Death

Deck design by Ralph Melton

Shangri-La and the Goal: Hand of Madness. Normally, they go together like garlic
and chocolate sauce: two great tastes that do not go well together. The Hand of
Madness involves controlling Violent groups and destroying Peaceful groups, and
Shangri-La can only attack destroy Violent groups. But under the right
circumstances, it's possible to make this combination viable.

This deck will work better in games with fewer players, playing to a large
number of groups. I'd rather play it in a three-player game to 12 groups than in
a six-player game to 10 groups.
Illuminati

Shangri-La
Groups

    A.M.A.
    Bjorne
    Canada
    Center for Disease Control
    Church of Elvis
    Church of Violentology x2
    Der Grosse Magier (German)
    Goldfish Fanciers
    Japan
    Lama Ramadingdong
    Trekkies
    Vatican City

Resources

    Angel's Feather
    Blivit

Plots

    Big Sellout x2
    Charismatic Leader
    Crop Circles x2
    Crusade x3
    Goal: Hand of Madness x2
    Good Polls
    Jihad x2
    Kinder and Gentler
    Martyrs x2
    Messiah
    Mother's March
    Murphy's Law
    NWO: A Thousand Points of Light x2
    NWO: Apathy x2
    Power Grab x3
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know x3

The Beginning

Look at the other Illuminati that are out there. If there's another Shangri-la
in the game, plan on playing like a normal Shangri-la player. (If the Church of
Violentology ever comes out, plan on playing like a normal Shangri-la player.)
This deck will not be as strong as a deck designed for the Shangri-la goal;
them's the breaks.

Lead with the Vatican, if you can; it will let you use your Crusades. If that
bounces, lead with Japan, which has bonuses to take over the Center for Disease
Control and the A.M.A., or the A. M. A., which has two common alignments with
the Vatican, and a bonus to take over the Center for Disease Control.
The Midgame

Accumulate six peaceful groups, preferably without inviting the other players to
come after your head. Power Grabs are good for this; with all your action tokens
in place, you look very defensive. The Angel's Feather is also a way to make you
look more defensive.

The following are some particularly desirable groups, with their purpose for the
endgame:

The Church of Elvis, to increase the power of an eventual Messiah;
Bjorne, to sacrifice himself in a Messianic blaze of glory;
Der Grosse Magier, to power Crop Circles.
Goldfish Fanciers, to add to your immunity.

If you get one of your goals during the midgame when you're not ready to use it,
bury it six or more cards deep in your deck. You'll draw six or more plot cards
during your bid for victory, and if anyone sees your Goal, the jig will be up.

If you can do so without inciting anyone's enmity or leaving yourself too badly
exposed, destroy one violent group during the midgame. I consider this to be
optional.
The Endgame

To qualify for the endgame, you need to have the following things before your
automatic takeover:

You need to have six Peaceful groups in your power structure and a Church of
Violentology in your hand. Ideally, you will have played a NWO: Apathy earlier
in the game, and it will still be in play now.

You also need, at the absolute least, to have at least one +10 booster that
applies to the Church of Violentology (Crusade or Jihad). You would also like to
have the following cards:
    NWO: Apathy, if there's not one in play
    NWO: A Thousand Points of Light
    Big Sellout

One way to get these cards into your hand is to use Der Grosse Magier's action
token to power a Crop Circles.

ATO the Church of Violentology.

Use the Big Sellout to discard all the group cards in your hand and deck for
action tokens on your groups. If you don't succeed in your bid for victory,
you're going to be killed anyway, so don't worry about saving group cards. The
one possible exception is your Blivit; see below.

Now, you're going to make six failed attacks to destroy the Church of
Violentology. Each of these is going to fail, resulting in the destruction of
the attacking group.

Lead with one of your outlying groups. Particularly if you've managed to destroy
a violent group earlier, you may be able to convince other players that you're
trying for a Kill for Peace goal, and get them to defend the Church of
Violentology for you, at least for the first few attacks.

If you have to defend the Church of Violentology yourself, you have several
possibilities:

    Use a +10 booster to add to its power for defense. This is good, because it
lasts until the end of your turn.
     
    Use Apathy to prevent anyone from helping you make the attack.
     
    If the Apathy fails, use the Vatican and the Goldfish Fanciers to prevent
Peaceful and Fanatic groups from aiding your attack.
     
    Use Good Polls (and the Charismatic Leader) to boost the defensive power of
the Church.
     
    Use NWO: A Thousand Points of Light to eliminate the bonus for opposite
alignments.
     
    Claim the +5 defensive bonus for being Shangri-la. (This is probably abusing
the rules, but although the rules mention that you do not get the defensive
bonus for proximity to the Illuminati when you are attacking your own groups,
neither the rules nor any of the FAQs say that Shangri-la's defensive bonus does
not apply to Shangri-la's attacks on themselves.)
    Editor's note: it has been ruled that the Shangri-La defensive bonus must
apply when Shangri-La makes an attack against themselves. This is only
beneficial to this deck. RLM 1/25/97 

If you are going to roll an attack on the Church of Violentology that's certain
to fail from a group that has an extra action token, consider using the extra
action token with an extra from another group to draw a plot.

If you happen to succeed in one of the attacks on the Church, use Mother's March
to reroll the attack.

As a secondary gambit, to be done only if you can do it without killing the
Church of Violentology Play a Messiah on Bjorne. With the Vatican, the Church of
Elvis, and the Church of Violentology, Bjorne's power will be up to 11. That
means that if he fails to destroy the Church of Violentology, you will draw 13
plots.

If all the control arrows of Shangri-La are occupied when you ATO the Church of
Violentology, fear not--simply let your peaceful groups march one-by-one into
the Valley of the Shadow of Death that awaits them, until you get a free control
arrow, and then use the Church of Violentology's action token to move them into
that control arrow, and keep on massacring your innocent peaceful groups.

When you've destroyed six of your Peaceful groups, show your Hand of Madness
goal and claim victory.
Complications

Here are some things that can go wrong, with suggestions for handling them them:

Problem: Someone else plays Shangri-La.
This is a problem, because by the time you get six peaceful groups into your
power structure, the two of you will probably have already won with the
Shangri-La goal.
Solution: play normal Shangri-La, without hinting at your hidden scheme. It
won't work as well as a deck without this hidden scheme, but it'll probably do
okay.

Problem: Someone else plays the Church of Violentology first.
If you don't attack the Church of Violentology in your own hand, the peaceful
groups don't count as destroyed by you.
Solution: Play normal Shangri-La. You probably can't take over the Church
without giving away the game.

Problem: Someone has an action token on the Nuclear Power Companies when you
make your bid for victory.
If someone cancels one of your attacks on the Church of Victory, that attack
doesn't blast the attacker into shards.
Solution: Use The Big Sellout to put multiple action tokens on your groups, or
use the Blivit to prevent the NPCs from cancelling your actions.

Problem: Someone has an action token on the Orbital Mind Control Lasers when you
make your bid.
This is a problem because if the Church of Violentology becomes non-violent, you
can no longer attack to destroy the Church.
Solution: If this is likely to happen, take a Blivit on a turn before your bid
for victory. Alternatively, bribe the owner of the OMCLs to use that action
token for some other purpose beforehand.

Problem: NWO: Apathy gets replaced.
If other people join in your attack, then their groups might get destroyed
instead of yours.
Solution: Hopefully, you'll have enough extra action tokens to accept their aid,
destroy their groups, and still be able to destroy your own.

Problem: NWO: Interesting Times
If you've achieved your Hand of Madness by destroying almost all your groups,
there's no possible way you're going to live, much less win, if an Interesting
Times is played.
Solution: Your NWO: A Thousand Points of Light or Secrets Man Was Not Meant to
Know. (Discard from your deck instead of using your Illuminati actions for
SMWNMTK.)

Problem: Upheaval!
If you have only the Church of Violentology left, and someone plays an
Upheaval!, you will be dead before you play a Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know.
Solution: SMWNMTK isn't a solution. The only solutions are to
a) start with seven groups other than your Illuminati, instead of six, or
b) Hope it doesn't happen.
Uses of Other Cards

Kinder and Gentler is there because every Shangri-La deck should have a Kinder
and Gentler; people will look at you oddly if you don't.

Martyrs: For attacks and defense in the midgame.

Murphy's Law: useful for making sure an attack on the Church of Violentology
fails, or for normal defense.

Charismatic Leader: Boost the power of the Church, or boost the power of the
Trekkies if you're going for a normal Shangri-La goal.
Replacements

This deck uses a fair number of rare and unusual cards. Some advice on
substitutions:

Church of Violentology: this is absolutely critical to the deck. If you don't
have one, you should play another deck. If you only have one, you might be able
to use it with a Crop Circles to find it.

Big Sellout: This is used to trade your group cards for action tokens. You could
probably do without it; if so, reduce your group deck a bit.

Messiah: This is used for two purposes: 1) To Add to Bjorne's power to let you
draw lots of plots. 2) To add 8 to 10 points of peaceful power if you go for a
normal Shangri-La victory. It's not vital to the deck.

Der Grosse Magier: This German group is a Peaceful, Magic Personality. He's in
this deck to power Crop Circles, because he's the only Peaceful Magic group.
(And because he's a personality to be the Messiah, if Bjorne doesn't work out.)
If you don't have one, you might use Sufficiently Advanced Technology on the A.
M. A. or the Center for Disease Control to power your Crop Circles.

NWO: Apathy: This NWO prevents any group from aiding another group in an attack.
It's very nice for making sure that you don't get an overwhelming coalition
against the Church. If you don't have one, you might consider a NWO:
Military-Industrial Complex to prevent Government groups from using their full
power in the attack.

Goldfish Fanciers: These give you immunity to Fanatic groups, and they are
themselves Fanatic, so they can use your Jihads. They're not essential.

Some other cards I considered for this deck:
    Antiwar Activists
    Boy Sprouts
    Fnord Motor Company
    Moonies
    Princess Di
    Supreme Court
     
    Are We Having Fun Yet?
    Deasil Engine
    Hat Trick
    Near Miss
    NWO: Military-Industrial Complex
    NWO: Visualize Whirled Peas
    Read My Lips
    Sufficiently Advanced Technology

Roleplaying

Why are the Secret Masters telling their followers to walk blindly into the jaws
of death? These are some of the possible reasons:

    As those who have read the Illuminatus! trilogy know, mass human sacrifice
is an excellent way of achieving transcendental illumination.
     
    As you keep going through the cycle of life, living and dying and being
reincarnated, you eventually approach Nirvana. So what better way to approach
Nirvana than by dying?
     
    When you think about it, what's more peaceful than death, anyway?

Last modified: January 25, 1997
Back to the Deck of the Week.
