The 600-Pound Gorilla

by Ralph Melton

"Where does a 600-pound Gorilla sit?" "Anywhere he wants." This is a
hard-hitting Bavaria deck with lots and lots of power and a very tight
Government Violent theme.
Illuminati

    Bavarian Illuminati 

Group Cards

    C.I.A.
    Manuel Noriega
    New York
    Pentagon
    Texas
    Center for Weird Studies
    Clipper Chip
    Cyborg Soldiers x2 

Plot Cards

    Assertiveness Training
    Backlash
    Beach Party
    The Big Score
    Bribery
    Censorship
    Giant Kudzu
    Good Polls x3
    Hoax x2
    Meteor Strike
    Martial Law x4
    Murphy's Law
    Power Grab
    Savings and Loan Scam
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know x2
    Sniper
    Swiss Bank Account
    Terrorist Nuke x4
    NWO: Fear and Loathing x2
    NWO: Gun Control x3
    NWO: Law and Order x2 

Beginning

You should lead with New York, since it has the highest power of any group in
the game, and it has at least two common alignments with all your other groups,
making it good for you, and it has a high Resistance, making it inconvenient in
the hands of your opponents. However, if you bounce on the lead of New York, you
shouldn't be too distressed; the C.I.A., Texas, or the Pentagon will also do as
well.
Midgame

The midgame should be one of slow, steady growth. On each turn, you will
probably make an Automatic Takeover of one group, spend an Illuminati action to
take over a Resource, and make one Privileged attack to control from your hand,
and spend an action when necessary to move a group next to the Illuminati.

Your Resources are all roughly equally useful. The Cyborg Soldiers double the
power of two of your Groups (one of the Cyborg Soldiers should almost certainly
be on New York, of course), but the Clipper Chip adds to the power of all your
Groups, so it is also very useful. The Center for Weird Studies' power to reload
action tokens can also be very useful.

With two common alignments, New York should have at least a 9 or less to take
over any of the groups in your hand, or more once you've managed to get out a
Cyborg Soldiers for New York, or a Clipper Chip. You should obviously bring out
your higher-powered Groups first; Manuel Noriega is not as important as the
other groups, for example.

Remember to make your attacks Privileged! I an many other players I know tend to
forget about Bavaria's special power; using your Privileged attack when you make
attacks from your hand will greatly reduce the amount of meddling you get, and
help you save your action tokens for defense.

Feel free to use your NWOs to help your attacks, but do remember their uses in
the endgame. NWO: Fear and Loathing is particularly valuable to you, because all
your groups have two common alignments with each other.

It is important to save your action tokens for defense, and for drawing plots.
The reason is this: very quickly, you are going to start looming, and people are
going to become nervous. You need to be well-defended, and as importantly, you
need to look well-defended in order to deter attacks.

On the other hand, while all your plots are nice, none of them are separately
necessary. Therefore, it can be very useful to discard a plot to power the
Center for Weird Studies. Two main ways you might want to use the CfWS:

    The Center can provide an action token to let you move a newly-captured
group next to the Illuminati.
    The Center can replenish an Illuminati action used to bring out a Resource. 

If you do get attacked, your best defense should be Good Polls; all of your
groups have a high Power and Resistance, so they benefit greatly from Good
Polls,and all of your groups can defend each other with their Good
Polls-increased Power. Furthermore, Good Polls lasts until the beginning of your
next turn, so a single Good Polls will defend you well until your next turn.

Your +10 boosters are also more likely to be used defensively than offensively.

The high power and proximity to the Illuminati of your three places will provide
an adequate first line of defense against Disasters. The only Disasters that
might be really effective would be something like Giant Kudzu--but there, you
should have enough action tokens and defensive plots to thwart such a disaster.

Above all, don't be too greedy in the midgame; do your conservative growth, and
stand around looming in a way that says 'I'm too well-defended to be worth
attacking.'
Endgame

This deck does not have a sharp delineation between the midgame and the endgame.
The best way to express the turning point is this: The larger the leap to
victory that you make in a single turn, the greater the chance that someone will
be able to block your bid for victory. On the other hand, there comes a point
when you've grown so large that the other players feel that they have to attack
you or have no chance of fending off a victory. You should attempt to make your
push for victory at your last opportunity before your opponents band together to
bring you down. This point should certainly be influenced by your own
experience, but a reasonable rule of thumb is to try this bid for victory when
you have 37-41 points of power at the beginning of your turn, and you can see
your way to getting 50 points in one turn.

Your bid for victory will be like your other turns: an ATO, a resource takeover
if you don't have one already, an attack or two from your hand, using your
ability to make Privileged attacks, and the playing of one or more NWOs to boost
your power.

Your plan is to win by the amount of power you control. Period. You don't have
enough groups to have a real chance at winning by number of Groups controlled.

However, you shouldn't have too much trouble getting to 50 points of Power,
because if you get all your Groups and your Power-boosting cards out, you would
have 76 points of power. Practically, you shouldn't expect to get all of that
out, but you should feel comfortable that you don't have to have everything go
perfectly in order to win. As a rule of thumb, this deck is probably robust
enough to be winnable with one major catastrophe, like someone else taking of
destroying one of yoru groups, or playing NWO: Don't Forget to Smash the State.
It probably can't handle much more.

(A side note: if you have all your Resources and NWOs in play, then New York
will have a base roll of 42 or less (!) to control Manuel Noriega, and Manuel
will have a power of 8 after he's taken over. It is for these reasons that I
included Manuel, who would otherwise be more puny than usual for a Bavaria
deck.)
Potential problems

One obvious fact about this deck is that it uses an extremely small Group deck.
This has the benefit that every Group card you draw is a really good Group card
that will serve you well. The disadvantage is that if the game is prolonged, you
will cease to be able to draw new Group cards.

It should be noted, though, that this Group deck is actually small enough that
it does not need to worry excessively about Group-deck menaces like the Society
for Creative Anarchism. The reason is this: Unless you bounce on your lead
puppet three times or more, you will draw your last Group card on your second
turn. In order to use the SCA against you, someone would have to use the SCA as
your lead puppet, use the SCA as their ATO on their first turn, or attack to
control the SCA and use a Blitzkrieg. None of these combinations are very
likely.

Losing groups, though, is Bad News. An Upheaval! would be a major catastrophe
for you, and would be well worth playing a Hoax or Secrets Mand Was Not Meant to
Know if it happens. By the same token, it is well worth defending all your
groups to the hilt.

A deck design corollary of the small plot deck is that none of the Plot cards
that require discarding Group cards to play were included in the Plot deck.

Other things that can happen:
Other People Bring Out Your Groups

All of the high-powered groups that you have are reasonably popular. Other
people may play them first.

If that happens, wait for a time when the group appears to be sparsely defended,
and make a deadly all-out Privileged attack to seize control, with multiple
common alignments (ideally, doubled with NWO: Fearand Loathing), +10 boosters,
and your Agents for the group. It will be a stiff fight, because the other
player will have his own defenses, but you can probably succeed. This can be an
excellent thing to do in the endgame, particularly if your target controls other
groups.
The Discordian Society

As you have probably noticed, all your groups are Government. This means that
the Discordian Society is almost entirely immune to you.

Your best solution is just to outgrow the Discordian Society, while defending
yourself from any attacks that he might make. You do have one Swiss Bank
Account, which you can use to make a somewhat-effective attack on the Discordian
Society.
Shangri-La

Shangri-La is most likely to inconvenience you by playing Kinder and Gentler on
your Groups, with two effects:

    Your newly groups will no longer be able to profit from NWO: Gun Control or
Cyborg Soldiers.
    Shangri-La will leap closer to their own victory. 

To provide a chance of countering these, the deck includes a Backlash and an
Assertiveness Training. Hoax and Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know are also
useful.
NWO: Don't Forget to Smash the State

This NWO will cut deeply into your total power. This is the major reason that
two copies of NWO: Law and Order were added. NWO: Law and Order only adds four
points to your total power, but the sheer inconvenience of NWO: Don't Forget to
Smash the State makes it worthwhile to have a yellow New World Order to get rid
of DFtStS.
NWO: Interesting Times

This blue NWO can thwart your victory by making only the basic goal count for
victory. This is a great inconvenience, because you don't stand much of a chance
of getting to the 10-12 groups of a basic victory. Your blue NWO: Fear and
Loathing plots are effective for eliminating NWO: Interesting Times, as well as
adding +8 to most of your attacks from your hand.

There are also a few cards provided to let you thwart other players who seem to
be getting uppity:

Censorship
    Lets any of your groups make a devastating attack on a Media group. 
Sniper
    Your pumped-up Government Groups should be able to provide a powerful enough
Sniper to blast a personality who's right next to the Illuminati. If you really
feear Discordia, you might replace this with a Car Bomb, since Discordia is
immune to a New York-powered Sniper but not immune to a New York-powered Car
Bomb. 
    If someone else brings out Bill Clinton, Bill's bonuses to control your
groups might be worrisome enough to suggest a Sniper. 
Meteor Strike
    This Disaster was included because it can be played on any place, even
Moonbase and Orbit One. 
Giant Kudzu
    This Disaster was included because of its large power. It can either be used
to drain a target of action tokens by playing it when that player has lots of
action tokens, or to destroy a place when the owning player has very few action
tokens with which to defend it. 

Variants and Substitutions

An obvious way to adjust this deck would be to add some more Group cards;
frankly, this deck is fairly far out on the small-group-deck end of the
spectrum.

If you were going to add groups, Government groups (particularly Violent
Government groups) would be ideal, because of your large bonuses to take them
over and the power bonuses they get from the Clipper Chip and NWO: Gun Control.

Some particularly attractive Groups might be:

Bill Clinton
    Bill has an excellent power to take over all your Government groups.
Unfortunately, his Resistance isn't as good, and he's not Violent. 
NASA
    NASA's special power to give their token to one of your Government Groups is
a useful way to recharge for another attack, to allow a group to be moved after
being controlled, or to increase your defensive power. 

I debated about whether to include the Perpetual Motion Machine or the Center
for Weird Studies, or both. The extra action token that either can provide is
extremely useful. The Perpetual Motion Machine, though, is a Rare card, and it
is a Gadget, which means that it can be destroyed by a Deasil Engine or a Weak
Link. It's also fairly popular in my play group, which means that you may not
get to have it.

I decided on the Center for Weird Studies because it's less popular, and once
it's in play, the only way it can be torn from you is through Forgery. Its extra
cost of requiring Plot discards is undesirable, because you won't be drawing
many plots, but tolerable, because there are no Plot cards that are really
crucial to you.

Back to the Classic Decks.

First posted: February 15, 1997

Last modified: February 15, 1997
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
