INWO Deck: The Bible Beltane

This deck was my attempt at building a Conservative Church-oriented Society of
Assassins deck. (I drew inspiration from The Right Wing Revolution.)

I had read an assertion on the INWOmailing list that Conservative decks were far
more effective than Liberal decks. This ran counter to my intuition, so I
decided to try it out. This deck works pretty well, but in the course of
evolution, it has moved farther and farther away from using the Society's
special power or special goal. After trying it, I still believe that it is
easier to make a strong Liberal deck than a strong Conservative one.

I picked the name 'Bible Beltane' for the deck because 'Bible Belt' seemed to
fit the conservative church theme and the alliterative subtheme of the Fiendish
Fluoridators, Moral Minority, and Religious Reich, and because of the gimmick of
the Reformed Church of Satan mentioned below.

A weakness of this deck is that it tries to have too many themes: it tries to be
Conservative, Straight, Church, and Fanatic all at once, and the combination
doesn't wholly work.

In particular, it seems intuitive to make a deck that is both Conservative and
Straight. When you look at the cards, though, all the Conservative and Straight
groups are wimpy little squirts with power 1 or 2. Many of them are
personalities, too, which makes them doubly unappealing. So that combination
doesn't work as well as one might hope.

Conservative and Fanatic or Conservative and Violent also seem to be
combinations with potential--but again, most of the cards with those
combinations turn out to be fairly puny, with a few exceptions.

Another weakness of this deck is that many of its groups do not have outgoing
control arrows on the end opposite to the incoming control arrow. It's not
uncommon to run into arrow conflicts.

This deck is a couple of cards short of 45 cards.
The Deck
Illuminati

    Society of Assassins 

Groups

    Bank of England
    Congressional Wives
    Fiendish Fluoridators
    Fred Birch Society
    Moral Minority
    Newt Gingrich
    Reformed Church of Satan
    Republicans
    Religious Reich
    Ross Perot
    Texas
    TV Preachers
    Vatican City 

Plots

    Blitzkrieg
    Censorship
    Charismatic Leader
    Citizenship Award
    Commitment
    Crusade
    Dictatorship
    Frankenfood
    Fundie Money
    George the Janitor
    Good Polls
    Grassroots Support
    Hoax
    Jihad x2
    Just Say No x2
    Martial Law
    Messiah
    Nuclear Accident
    Pizza For the Secret Meeting
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Slush Fund x2
    Goal: Let Them Eat Cake! x2
    NWO: Interesting Times
    NWO: Law and Order x2
    NWO: World Hunger 

There's no really obvious lead for this deck. If you get your Dictatorship in
the first few cards, you might use the Vatican, if you get the Messiah, you
might use Ross Perot. The Republicans are another good choice.

This deck does not have a Goal: Power For Its Own Sake in it, because enough
people have suspected me of having PFIOS that I refuse on principle to have one.

The Dictatorship is for the Vatican, to boost its power and make it not count
for Shangri-La. Besides, I like the idea of making the Vatican into a religious
dictatorship.

If you use the Frankenfood to make Texas Fanatic, it can have up to 8 points of
global power.

Newt Gingrich is the scourge of Liberal groups, with a huge bonus to destroy
them. This can be a lot of fun. If France is out, destroy France first, because
it provides excellent defense for a Liberal deck. NWO: World Hunger is also a
way to annoy Liberal groups a lot.

The Messiah will boost the power and resistance of one of your personalities by
12, if you get all your churches out. This is unlikely, but a bonus of 8 or 10
is much easier.

NWO: Law and Order is a very nice NWO for you, because it increases the power of
almost all your groups.

If you have Ross Perot in play, you can ATO the Reformed Church of Satan and
make them a puppet of Ross Perot, turning them Conservative and Straight.
(They're fine churchgoing citizens...) This gives your power structure
near-complete immunity to Straight groups.

Many of the groups in this deck have high resistances. I often save the Moral
Minority for a low-cost bid for victory at the end.

Pizza For The Secret Meeting is also useful for a bid for victory. It's often
the case that there is one Secret group in play more powerful than the Fiendish
Fluoridators, but not two. You can play your Pizza on that group, and let your
Fiendish Fluoridators count double for one turn.

Back to Ralph's INWO page.
Back to Ralph's Home page.

Last modified: July 9, 1996
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
