The Bermuda Crime-Angle

by Carey Clevenger

"When you've been stealing ships and airplanes as long as we have, it's only a
matter of time before you start stealing everything else."

And so begins the premise of the deck, at least poetically.

From a more realistic standpoint, this deck sprung from my desire to build a
deck that could actually win with Bermuda's special goal. Of course, there are
huge problems with making the alignments work together; all of the opposition
makes defense difficult, not to mention the problems you run into when you may
want to assist an attack.

The key to the special goal is, not surprisingly, the special goal itself (if
this is a catastrophic revelation to you, perhaps you're not cut out for this
World Domination thing). So let's take a look: "Control a total power of at
least 35, counting Bermuda's own power, and at least one group of each
alignment." The first part's easy: thirty-five power, I've had 50 or more
playing Bavaria. The second part is a bit trickier: "One of each alignment." So
I need all ten alignments, in a deck that will work together? Seems impossible,
what with all of the opposite alignments (which are eight of the alignments),
and Fanatic (which is always opposite). So it's just not feasible, right?

That's what I thought. But the thing to keep in mind is that good ol' alignment
number ten, Criminal, has no opposite.

Let me rephrase that if you haven't caught on yet. You can build a deck of all
Criminal groups, and since Criminal has no opposite, you won't be missing an
alignment that would be its opposite.

Once you figure that part out, the rest is easy. In fact, the deck is more or
less eleven cards with some handy plots thrown in. You can flavor the deck for
whatever sort of group you usually play against, but after you get past the
"Essential" cards, the rest is just stuff I put into my deck. Feel free to
change things to be as evil as possible for your playing style.
Illuminati

    Bermuda Triangle 

Group Cards

    Day Care Centers
    Dittoheads
    Junk Mail
    Loan Sharks
    Lyndon LaRouche
    The Mafia
    New York
    Savings and Loans
    Semiconscious Liberation Army
    Telephone Psychics 

As I said earlier, this is just a framework. It would be possible to accomplish
Bermuda's special goal with only those cards. Of course, it would be a pretty
boring game, and it would be way too easy; i.e., it wouldn't be INWO. So, here
are my suggestions on the other 34 cards.
The Other Stuff
Resources

    Cyborg Soldiers
    Immortality Serum
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers 

Plot Cards

    Alien Abduction
    An Offer you Can't Refuse (Also fits the theme nicely, eh?)
    Backlash
    The Big Score (x3)
    Blitzkrieg
    Celebrity Spokesman
    Cover of Darkness
    Deasil Engine
    Giant Kudzu
    Good Polls
    Murphy's Law
    Privileged Attack
    Secrets Man was not Meant to Know (x2)
    Seize the Time!
    Senate Investigating Committee
    Sweepstakes Prize
    Terrorist Nuke
    Voodoo Economics
    Goal: Criminal Overlords
    Goal: Hail Eris!
    Goal: Power for its Own Sake
    NWO: A Thousand Points of Light (x2)
    NWO: Fear and Loathing
    NWo: Gun Control (x2)
    NWO: Law and Order
    One other Yellow NWO: Bigger Business, Military Industrial Complex, or Law
and Order 

Overview
First of all, yes, the deck does work. Another great thing about this deck is
how flexible it is: three goal cards, plus the special goal (which is
obtainable), adds up to four ways to win. General advice is to keep working
towards the special goal, and then adapt your strategy for the fastest win,
depending on goal cards.
Basic Principles

Lead with New York or The Mafia; either are good choices. Link the Cyborg
Soldiers to this group as soon as possible; you don't necessarily need the extra
power for the win, but it makes things much easier. Once you've done this,
either group will have a 14 power to take groups (without even counting
alignment bonuses). If you chose New York, only two groups in your deck will
have alignments opposed to it (the Peaceful Telephone Psychics, and the
Corporate Junk Mail); for the Mafia, only one group (Telephone Psychics) has an
opposed alignment. For all of the other groups in your hand, you're going to
have *at least* a +4 alignment bonus, which gives you a total attacking power of
18. This group is going to do most of your dirty work.

Try to take powerful groups (with control arrows) as soon as possible. Try to
get out either The Mafia or New York (whichever you didn't lead with, naturally)
as soon as possible. It won't be hard to draw them; over half of your cards will
be in your hand at the beginning of turn one, and another will be in your power
structure, leaving only five to draw. With the Mafia in your power structure,
you'll get an extra +2 to snag up those Criminal groups. Spend the first few
turns picking up groups until you have New York, The Mafia, and possibly the
Loan Sharks. New York and The Mafia should most definitely be directly
controlled by Bermuda; at least for now.

Attacks and defense are pretty straightforward: you attack a Criminal group, you
can assist with Criminal groups. If you get attacked, you can defend with...you
guessed it, your Criminal groups. Any time you think someone may try to
interfere with your attacks, either play a "Big Score" right off or make it
Privileged. Or just throw in lots of power.
Specific Strategies

The goal here is to grab groups up as quickly as possible, and your plots should
help. New York and The Mafia in the same power structure make it a no-brainer;
power isn't a concern. And since Loan Sharks get +1 power for each Criminal
group you control, they're very quickly going to become your most powerful
"unmodified" group (especially with New York giving them an additional +1). Of
course, they'll be easy to overlook when your opponents see the 13 or 14 power
group you have (thanks to the Cyborg Soldiers).

Most of the groups are self explanatory: they provide alignments you need to
fulfill your goal. At first glance, however, Lyndon LaRouche seems completely
useless to your goal; and he is. Feel free to play up the "Oh no, his alignments
don't count for goals!" or mock shock when you "Accidentally" count his
alignments in and They point it out to you. While it may seem silly to put a
card in that won't help your goals, he actually will; indirectly. Because once
he controls the Dittoheads, they're going to gain all of his alignments.

Day Care Centers is a fun card to use for this deck, because their special
ability can help any of your goals. Assuming you have Gun Control in play, you
can link the Day Care Centers up to whatever group you need to fulfill a goal.
Power for its own Sake? Link it to New York. Hail Eris? Link it to Lyndon
LaRouche. Criminal Overlords? Link it to New York, The Mafia, or Loan Sharks
(worst case scenario that someone has offed one of the four Violent Criminal
groups you started the game with). And being Bermuda, you can move your whole
power structure around right before you declare a victory.

Before you close in for the kill, try to keep a Big Score in reserve for
defense, and play out your Good Polls if you need to. Try to pick an alignment
you have a lot of for maximum defense. (That would be "Criminal" for those of
you in the back.)
Not-So-Obvious Tricks

A lot of the plots in the suggested deck design are aimed at Lyndon LaRouche in
some way. This is because taking the Dittoheads using him is going to be tough,
and no one else can make that attack to control. Ideally, playing out Law and
Order (or even Bigger Business) while Gun Control is in play, in a power
structure with New York, will give ol' Lindy a 5 power. This isn't going to help
much, however, because the Dittoheads and Lyndon are both Fanatic, so A Thousand
Points of Light will be useful here. Alternatively, make Lyndon a Celebrity
Spokesman, and/or give him a Sweepstakes Prize. Chances are that you're going to
have to assist with your Bermuda token, or at the very least, play a Big Score.
If you're playing with automatic takeovers, make the Dittoheads your choice as
soon as you have Lyndon. Of course, worse comes to worse, you lose them: slide
the Day Care centers over onto his control arrow, and steal his alignments that
way. Their lack of initial alignment is a small obstacle compared to their low
resistance: snag it with your "high power" group and move it where you want it
at the end of your turn.

Additionally, if you need power above all else, you can put Lyndon in control of
New York and give him a 7 *printed* power. Then start adding the bonuses...don't
forget that the Dittoheads give a +2, and how much fun NWO cards are going to be
for him and his like-minded drones. Or even the +1 power from New York, or the
+1 power Loan Sharks get for each Criminal group. The mind reels...
End Game

Chances are, if you played your cards right (no pun intended), you'll be able to
win in three or four turns; either by the special goal, or one of your goal
cards. Keep New York, The Mafia, and Lyndon as direct Illuminati puppets. Move
the rest of the groups around however you see fit. Making nifty patterns is a
good choice, although providing maximum protection for the "One of a kind"
alignments is certainly not a bad idea. If you've been able to keep the MCL's up
towards the end, losing one alignment won't matter too much; you can just glue
it on somewhere else.

Make sure you have your lackeys send enough boats to carry your loot off.
Suggestions from your friend and mine, Ralph Melton

After I submitted the initial version of the deck (as you see above), Ralph had
some good good suggestions. The only reason I didn't include them above is that
I haven't tried them out yet.

Ralph made the recommendation of using the Phone Phreaks instead of the SLA to
get the Liberal Criminal group, because Bermuda getting the SLA seems a little
too obvious (it always was in the original boardgame), and your opponents
probably won't let you take them over that easily. This is a very valid point,
and certainly something to keep in mind. I looked at the Phone Phreaks when I
originally built this deck as an alternative, but I decided to go with the SLA;
there was always one player in the group who always played with the Network, and
through experience, I knew that my chances of getting the SLA were much better
than trying to take the Phone Phreaks from my hand (or even from his power
structure) as protective as he was of all the computer groups.

Ralph also suggested a really good idea that I hadn't considered to alleviate
the difficulties Lyndon has taking the Dittoheads: add Manuel Noriega, and use
him to take the Dittoheads, but move them onto Lyndon at first chance. This is a
really sneaking idea, because Manny's power is likely going to go through the
roof under Gun Control, and every little bit counts. He also has that cool
"Borrow my Alignments" trick.

Another alternative Ralph suggests: Ollie North. While Ollie isn't terribly
useful for his special ability, he *is* a Conservative Criminal Personality, and
he could just as easily control the Dittoheads. In fact, if you went with Ollie
and the Dittoheads, you wouldn't need to use Lyndon at all (provided you have
the SLA to give you a Weird alignment).
Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: April 18, 1998

Last modified: April 18, 1998
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
