The Trojan Goose

by Glen Barnett

One day, nearly two years ago, an evil idea came to me. It still makes me smile.
This deck is the most recent incarnation of that evil idea.

Premise: Shangri-La giving gifts. Nothing surprising there, right? What harm
could there be in accepting a couple of plots, anyway? Perhaps more than they
bargained for... when those plots are Unmasked! and Shangri-La. One problem with
playing Shangri-La is that it works really well when there's another Shangri-La
player, but you don't know that you'll have one - except with this deck.

This works best in a large game. The deck as it stands was designed for a 5-6
player game, though suggestions are given for using it in smaller games. This
isn't a deck I'd use very often, but it can be a lot of fun; if I was in a
tournament where I could play this, I'd definitely consider this deck for one of
the rounds... as long as you get to advance, right?
Illuminati

    Shangri-La 

Group Cards

    California
    Canada
    Hawaii
    Japan
    Lama Ramadingdong
    NASA
    Nuclear Power Companies
    Pentagon
    Rosicrucians
    Supreme Court
    Vatican City
    The Big Prawn
    Book of Kells
    Clipper Chip
    Crystal Skull
    Flying Saucer
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers 

Plot Cards

    Shangri-La x3
    Back to the Salt Mines
    Beach Party
    The Big Sellout
    Frankenfood
    Hat Trick x2
    Kinder and Gentler x2
    Martial Law x2
    Martyrs x2
    Messiah
    Near Miss
    Savings and Loan Scam
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know
    Seize The Time x2
    Unmasked x3
    NWO: Military-Industrial Complex
    NWO: Peace In Our Time
    NWO: Interesting Times 

What some of the cards are for:

    The NWO's are for the end of the game. Military-Industrial Complex will make
the Clipper Chip count for your Corporate Groups when you turn them Peaceful.
The extra Seize the Time can be used as a big incentive for another player.
    Kells is for the Rosicrucians. You may be able to manage without it.
    Non-Peaceful groups (mostly useful in themselves) should be turned Peaceful
in the endgame. You shouldn't need them all. Take a good look at their
abilities, there are some handy ones.
    The Big Sellout is for the endgame or thereabouts. You shouldn't need all
the groups and resources, so when you're ready, turn some of the ones you don't
need into tokens. 

Overview

The aim is to not look dangerous while you get some Unmasked and Shangri-La
cards in hand and give them away to likely dupes (sorry, I mean compadres). You
slowly turn the world a nice shade of Shangri-La, and there's not much they can
do about it. Once everything is ready, you should be able to jump about 20 to 30
points of Peaceful power in one go, and win.
The Beginning

Look at the other Illuminati. If there's another Shangri-La, then play this as a
more normal Shangri-La deck - you should have only a moderate overlap with the
Shangri-La player, yet you can still contribute a lot of Peaceful Power when
needed. The deck's tricks can be used in an emergency if the two of you get into
trouble.

Lead with the Rosicrucians, if you can. I'm not a big user of the Rosicrucians
myself, but in this deck they are important. Failing that, you'll need to get
the Crystal Skull out early, because you really need plot-control. If the
Rosicrucians are really popular with your group, you should consider a different
method of getting those important plots.
Midgame

Try to avoid playing your Peaceful Groups early. If they come out in other
people's power structures, that's fine. Play the non-Peaceful groups instead. If
you didn't get the Rosicrucians, get Pentagon, the NPC's, Hawaii and NASA out.
If the game doesn't look too dangerous, put the NPC's off the Pentagon, and
Hawaii off either the Pentagon or the NPC's (I'd suggest the Pentagon; you don't
want people zapping your NPC's just yet). You can draw a couple extra plots a
turn this way - and if you get the Crystal Skull, that should give you a good
chance to succeed with the deck. (Actually, the specific groups are almost
incidental to the deck - I just used groups that I thought would work in my play
group.)

Look as innocent as you can. Avoid cancelling with the NPC's if you can; make
deals not to use them unless attacked. You should keep the Peaceful Power low
while you set things up. Bring out the OMCL's late in the midgame, and don't use
them unless you have to.

Start to collect Unmasked and Shangri-La cards. You shouldn't run short of
plots, as you'll be drawing more than usual. When you have both, it is time to
make the first gift. The first one is a little delicate, so choose your mark
with care. You want someone who will see tha advantages of having a Shangri-La
and an Unmasked in their hand or deck, but who won't be so suspicious as to
discard them right away. When you offer them (don't let anyone else see what you
offer), say something like: "If you want these, you can keep them or put them
anywhere in your deck, but if you don't want them, I'll hang on to them."

It is important not to give away the concept of the deck just yet, so be very
careful. As far as that first player knows, they are the only one getting this
offer. If possible, pick someone with a deck that will work well as an Unmasked
Shangri-La, so the advantages are more obvious. Failing that, just pick someone
you can trust for a turn.

Once the cards are safely given over, you should lose little time in getting out
the next set of cards. Once they are in hand, secrecy is less necessary. Two
sets of giveaways are usually plenty, but there is a reserve. If you use all
three sets, you may even want to auction the last set. You may want to hold back
on the second or third sets while you set up some things ready for your endgame.
Put endgame cards in your plot deck where you'll be drawing them on your last
turn if you can't keep them all in hand. Once two players can Unmask as
Shangri-La, they should worry that they won't Unmask in time. If they are slow
on the uptake, you have that third set on hand...

If you find out that another player already has Unmasked and Shangri-La in deck,
they are ideal to give them to - because they'll want to Unmask, and this way
they can get them where they need them.
Endgame

At this point, you have at least two other players with Unmasked and Shangri-La
in their hand or deck, and it is possible that one of them at least has Unmasked
already. If not, and they haven't worked it out yet, make sure they know there
are at least two of them. The fear of maybe missing out should get them
Unmasking with some speed. Give away a Kinder and Gentler if you can, but you
have some good groups to use them on. Use the Big Prawn on California for
preference, adding Peaceful.

The Big Sellout should be used in the turn you attempt victory, because you have
a lot to do. You have a couple of action cancellers, and this turn is when you
may need them. Get out the Clipper Chip, turn the Pentagon and the NPC's
Peaceful with a Kinder and Gentler or the OMCL's, and play at least one of your
New World Orders. You should be able to push past 30 Peaceful Power without
difficulty, because you aren't fighting everyone else - at least half the
players should be helping you.

If for some reason it doesn't come off, don't panic - you have some other
players helping you now - they can be relied on to help keep the right NWO's
out, and to aid in other ways. You should still be able to salvage a win.
Replacements

Apart from having the Unmaskeds and Shangri-La's, and the necessary plot
control, you can substitute freely as long as you can get enough power to win
(with a buffer) by the end. Of course, not everyone will have 4 Shangri-La cards
and 3 Unmasked cards (though you should manage with 3 and 2), so there are other
things you can do - such as use "Stealing the Plans" when someone discards
Unmasked after using it. You could even Hat Trick your Stealing the Plans,
though you'd only need to do that if you had 3 Shangri-La's in your plot deck.

Adapt the cards to suit your group's play style and favourite cards - make the
deck work around what you are going to meet; the card list given worked in my
play group, but if I played it somewhere else, the deck would look different.
For example, I already expected that there'd be a few Peaceful groups about, and
there probably wouldn't be a Cthulhu. If I thought Cthulhu was likely, I'd have
changed things a little - of course, Cthulhu could be co-opted.

Nobel Peace Prize could easily make an appearance in a deck like this; don't
leave it out just because I did. It would be great on Hawaii if you turn it
Peaceful for example.
Smaller Games

You'll need fewer Shangri-La and Unmasked cards, but the game will probably be
quicker, so you'll probably want more Peaceful groups - you could easily omit
the NPC's, and some of the Resources. You may want to change some of the other
plots as well, to suit the different style of game. Less subtlety will be
required.
Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: August 26, 1997

Last modified: August 26, 1997
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
