The Bitter Cynical Sellout Discordia Deck

by Ralph Melton

The hippies of the 60's are driving BMWs today. Former tokers are now claiming
that they didn't inhale. All that's left of the High Weirdness of the past is a
sullen distrust of government that serves as a resistance to government
bullshit--but not a disinclination to use that bureaucracy for one's own ends.
It's... the Bitter Cynical Sellout Discordia Deck!

This deck illustrates one of my personal principles of deck design: you can
build interesting, unusual decks by ignoring an Illuminati's special goal and
focusing on using their special ability to the hilt. This deck does that with
the Discordian Society by using a Straight and Government theme. Doing so
provides some interesting and distinctive opportunities.
Illuminati

    The Discordian Society 

Group Cards

    Australia
    Bank of England
    Bill Clinton
    Deprogrammers
    England
    F.B.I.
    Fast Food Chains
    Fraternal Orders
    Margaret Thatcher
    NASA
    Pentagon
    Ross Perot
    Tobacco Companies
    Black Helicopters
    Clipper Chip 

Plot Cards

    Are We Having Fun Yet?
    The Big Sellout
    Censorship
    Dictatorship
    Emergency Powers
    Giant Kudzu
    Good Polls x2
    Grassroots Support
    Hoax x2
    Just Say No x2
    Martial Law x2
    Nationalization x2
    Near Miss
    Read My Lips
    Supreme Court Nomination
    Goal: The Corporate Masters
    Goal: Power for its Own Sake
    NWO: Australian Rules
    NWO: Fear and Loathing
    NWO: Law and Order
    NWO: Military-Industrial Complex
    NWO: The Magic Goes Away 

Beginning

Bill Clinton is a good lead, because he has a compelling bonus to take over your
many Straight Government groups.

If Bill Clinton bounces, or you don't feel like leading him, other good leads
would be the Tobacco Companies (for their bonus to control Government groups and
Corporate groups) or the Fraternal Orders for their ability to draw more Groups.
Midgame

This deck can be played pretty opportunistically. Do what seems appropriate; you
know what's suitable for your group better than I do, and this deck doesn't have
any hugely subtle combinations.

In general, on each turn you should make an ATO of a group that is useful to you
(like NASA) or hard to take over (such as your non-Government groups), and an
attack to control one of your Government groups from Bill Clinton.

A good rule of thumb is to keep about half of your action tokens for
defense--but Discordia's immunity and Australia's bonus against destruction may
allow you to be a bit lighter on defense. Although this is not quite a
monochromatic deck, it does have enough common alignments and enough power to be
very robust to non-Instant attacks.

Giving Bill Clinton the Black Helicopters will make his attacks to control
Privileged, which will be handy. Once you have a substantial number of
Government groups, bringing out a Clipper Chip will boost your power.

Here are a few of the combinations you might keep in mind:

    To state the obvious: You should take over the Bank of England early, and
attempt to use their action to draw Plots instead of making attacks.
    England's two action tokens will be very useful if you can boost their
power. If you draw Dictatorship or Emergency Powers, think seriously about
putting them on England.
    Because Margaret Thatcher's bonus is an 'any attempt' bonus, she can be
useful to provide extra growth in a turn: ATO a group, attack to control
Margaret Thatcher, and then use another Government group to control England with
a substantial bonus from Margaret Thatcher. You may wish to reserve this tactic
for an endgame bid for victory.
    Nationalization can be used as a double whammy: If you play it on a group
that is attacking you (and you have enough Government power that no Illuminati
action should be required), it cancels the attack (because of your Immunity to
Government groups), and it sets the group up for you to use your bonuses to
control Government groups to take them over.
    Supreme Court Nomination can be used for the same purpose against
Personalities. Note that this can't be used against Personalities that are
already attacking you, only those that might attack you. Still, it's cheap to
play, and either way the result ends up, the target Personality poses no threat
to you.
    With NWO: Military-Industrial Complex in play, the Tobacco Companies have a
+12 to control any Government group.
    This deck does not have any Media groups that the Censorship can be used to
take; the Censorship is there to attack a rival's Media group. You should have
no trouble finding a Government, Conservative, or Straight group to power it. 

Endgame

There are two Goals that best suit selling-out BMW-driving ex-hippies: The
Corporate Masters and Power for Its Own Sake.

Power for Its Own Sake is fairly easy to accomplish, particularly with your
yellow NWOs, your Power Boosters, and your Clipper Chip.

The Corporate Masters is somewhat more difficult; the Tobacco Companies will
count double for that Goal without modification, but the Fast Food Chains must
have their power improved to qualify. This can be done in many ways: NWO: Law
and Order, NWO: Military-Industrial Complex and a Clipper Chip, or a Grassroots
Support will all make the Fast Food Chains count double.
Potential problems

You don't have to worry about another player with the same groups as much as you
usually might; most decks that have the same groups will have mostly Straight
and Government groups. You may taunt them.

Another Discordian player would usually be a problem for a Discordia deck, but
this deck has less problems than most. You won't be contending for groups with a
normal Discordia deck. Furthermore, most of their attacks to control will be at
a penalty for opposite alignments, and you probably have more raw power you can
throw into the fray than a typical Discordia deck, so you can defend yourself.

On the other hand, another Discordia will typically have a +5 for rivalry and a
+4 for an opposite alignment if she makes an attack to destroy. More
significantly, you will have a hard time overcoming their immunity if you need
to take them down a peg. That's why you have the Deprogrammers--although they're
normally fairly useless, they can attack a rival Discordia's Weird group, at a
net +13 for an attack to destroy.
Variants and Substitutions

The cards in this deck are fairly loose; substitute freely. It has every group
that is both Straight and Government except for MI-5; MI-5 could be useful as a
deterrent to plot-meddling, but I decided to go with the Fast Food Chains
because they could count double with the Corporate Masters.

The Big Sellout is primarily there because it fit so well with the 'sellout'
theme of the deck. But because it was in there, I made the groups deck bigger
than usual, and therefore I put in the Fraternal Orders to help you get to your
valuable groups. If you took out the Big Sellout, you could probably trim down
the groups deck a bit.

This deck was built before INWO SubGenius; some of the things you might add to
the deck would be Official, All-Inclusive, Divine Excuse to protect your three
personalities, and Citizens for Normalcy for the perversity of using them in a
Discordia deck.
Roleplaying

This deck is a natural for a jaded and cynical style of roleplaying. You don't
trust or believe the Straight and Government establishment--but you don't
respect the goddamn Weird hippie-freaks either. Have fun with it.
Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: August 19, 1998
Last modified: Wed Aug 19 18:30:51 EDT 1998
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
