The Bottom Feeder

by Darrin Bright
Illuminati

    Servants of Cthulhu 

Group Cards

    Cable TV
    Gun Lobby
    Junk Mail
    Local Police Departments
    Madison Avenue
    Mossad
    Newt Gingrich
    Pentagon
    Republicans
    Saturday Morning Cartoons
    Survivalists
    Cyborg Soldiers
    Shroud of Turin 

Plot Cards

    Alien Abduction
    Atomic Monster
    Blood, Toil, Tears, and Sweat (x2)
    Censorship
    Forgery
    Fundie Money
    March On Washington
    Media Connections
    Mob Influence
    Monopoly
    New Blood
    Power Corrupts
    Privatization
    Pulitzer Prize
    Savings & Loan Scam (x2)
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant To Know
    Slush Fund
    Sniper
    Sweeping Reforms
    Terrorist Nuke
    Whispering Campaign
    GOAL: Criminal Overlords (x2)
    NWO/Yellow: Antitrust Legislation (x2)
    NWO/Red: Political Correctness (x3)
    NWO/Blue: World Hunger 

Overview

This is the third incarnation of a deck idea I've been toying with for maybe a
year now. It started out on an idea I got from one of my Bermuda decks. The idea
behind it was to make a Criminal Overlords deck that doesn't scream "I'm a
Criminal Overlords deck!", which means a lot of the typical Violent Criminal
groups have been left out. In fact, the only Criminal group is Junk Mail.

How do you win with Criminal Overlords then? Well, you use Political Correctness
to make your Power 1 Violent Conservative groups Criminal. There are only three
cards that this will work with: Police Depts, Gun Lobby, and the Survivalists.
(There's one more, actually...the Assassins Ultra-Rare Militia, but it's
difficult to get ahold of one and its special ability doesn't work well with the
gimmick behind this deck.)

The tough part is trying to keep Political Correctness intact. That's where the
Mossad and Shroud of Turin come in, and hence the name of the deck. You stack
all the cards you'll need for victory at the bottom of your deck, and use the
Mossad or Shroud to get at them. I designed a Cthulhu deck around this idea, but
this could work for any deck that relies on a key combination of cards to ensure
victory. But now that I think about what I could do to fine-tune this deck even
more, I'm thinking that this deck might do better with the UFOs and two other
alternate goals, Let Them Eat Cake and Corporate Masters.
Beginning

This deck has three main "Feeder" groups to help build your power structure. The
Republicans are for taking over Conservative/Government groups, Madison Avenue
is for taking over Corporate/Media groups, and the Pentagon is for taking over
Violent/Government groups. Your best lead is the Republicans, but either of the
other two ought to work just as well.

If you can get the Shroud out early, you may want to check what's on the bottom
of your group deck, in case there's an important group card down there like
Mossad or one of your three Violent Conservative groups. If there's someone
playing the Adepts, however, you may want to wait and see if he brings out a
Shroud of his own so you can play Forgery.

Hold on to Newt if he comes up, if you play him early your opponents might get
jumpy about Let Them Eat Cake and mobilize en masse to take him out. Newt is
great for destroying Liberal groups, but this early on you shouldn't worry about
destroying anything. It's possible to win with this deck without destroying
anything.

If you get any NWO's early on, hold on to them. You need them for the Endgame.
Discard them to the bottom of your deck so they'll be easy to get with Mossad or
the Shroud. If you discard any OTHER cards, make sure you discard them ABOVE
your NWOs. A little more on this later...

One other card you may want to hold on to is Secrets. This is the only card in
this deck that can get rid of Nevermore, which can really ruin your Endgame.
Midgame

Your focus for the midgame should be getting your Media groups out, and digging
your NWO's out of your plot deck. You need your Media groups out to help deal
with any nasty NWOs when you try and claim victory. Ideally, you want your
Corporate Media groups controlled by the Pentagon, but the opposite alignments
might make this difficult. Try Censorship if you're having trouble taking over
Corporate groups with the Pentagon. You might consider Privatizing the Pentagon,
but watch out for any untimely Antitrust Legislations.

Getting through your plot cards should be fairly easy if the Pentagon is
properly loaded up. Otherwise, you might get a few plots from the Gun Lobby, an
instant attack like Sniper or Atomic Monster, or a well-executed Whispering
Campaign. Discard all your NWOs towards the bottom of your deck. You want all
your Political Correctness on the bottom, then any yellow NWOs above those, then
any blue NWOs, then NWO-cancellers like BloodToilTears&Sweat and Sweeping
Reforms on top of that. This is what your deck should look like, in layers:

     --- Top ---
     <Misc. Undrawn Plot Cards, if any>
     <Any BloodToilTears&Sweat and/or Sweeping Reforms>
     <NWO:World Hunger or any other Blue NWOs>
     <NWO:AntiTrust Legislation or any other Yellow NWOs>
     <All of your NWO:Political Correctness>
     --- Bottom ---

Once your NWOs have been set up, you need either the Shroud or Mossad out, and
one to three of your Violent Conservative groups. You're not quite ready yet,
however... Once you've got your NWOs ready and your groups ready, you need to
get the following cards into your hand, and then you're ready for the Endgame:
Criminal Overlords Goal, and both Savings and Loans Scams.

Some things you need to look out for include Media cancellers like Dan Quayle
and Elvis. There's not much you can do about Bigfoot, but I doubt you'll see him
very often. Because three of your key groups are Power 1 Violent groups,
Shangri-La might be a problem. Try and convince him to agree to a non-aggression
pact if he gets trigger-happy. Another thing you need to look out for is
Nevermore - if it gets into play, your Endgame is finished. Secrets is the only
way you can get rid of it, but if you can't stop it, make sure you Nevermore any
Red or Yellow NWOs that come into play. You might get lucky and prevent your
rivals from playing any NWOs that could replace Political Correctness or boost
your Conservative groups.

Now the tricky part starts.
Endgame

Here's what you need to do on the turn you make your bid for victory. Draw ALL
your plot cards from the bottom of the deck with Mossad or the Shroud. Spend any
leftover tokens, then draw a group and any plots you're entitled to draw.

Now play your Savings and Loans Scams to get the rest of your NWOs and any
NWO-cancellers into your hand. Don't spend any Media tokens for these, you might
need them for getting rid of NWOs.

If Newt hasn't come out yet, now's a good time to ATO him, and then make any
last minute destructions or instant attacks. Try not to spend any Media tokens
unless you have to, and avoid spending yourself out. Spending any tokens might
be a bad idea, as you might need them for any desperate plot draws if things
don't go your way. When you're ready to claim victory, play your first Political
Correctness so your Power 1 Conservative Violent groups now count double.

That was the easy part. The really tough part will be keeping Political
Correctness intact. Your opponents will throw down any NWOs they have in their
hand to try and get rid of it, and then will spend all their action tokens to
try and get more NWOs from their plot decks. Wait until the flurry is over, then
play another Political Correctness and any other NWOs to keep your Criminal
groups Criminal. Use your Media groups to play BloodToilTears&Sweat or Sweeping
Reforms. What you don't want to see is any NWOs that boost your conservative
groups, like Law and Order and Big Business, or any Red NWOs. The Blue ones
generally won't affect you, except for Interesting Times. Play World Hunger or
get rid of it with BloodToilTears&Sweat/Sweeping Reforms.

By now, you've probably noticed that you don't have any Liberal groups. Other
than giving you some Criminal attributes, Political Correctness doesn't really
do you a lot of good, and if any of your opponents have any Liberal groups,
itcould wind up helping your opponents more than it helps you. If this is the
case, go for a shared victory. Sharing isn't as much fun, but hey, victory is
victory.
If You Screw The Pooch

If you've still got a Political Correctness hiding somewhere in your plots deck,
you might have a shot at victory on the next turn, but by now the other players
know what you're doing and are probably going to crush you. If Political
Correctness is gone and you're stuck with a bunch of non-Criminal Violent
groups, you could look for Violent Criminal groups in play and go after 'em, or
create one of your own with Power Corrupts. Another way to get a Violent
Criminal group is to move Junk Mail over to the Saturday Morning Cartoons.

One of the quirks of this deck is that by trying to stop you, sometimes your
opponents wind up helping you - in order to keep you from winning, your
opponents must boost the power of your Violent and Conservative groups. They may
have stopped you from winning that turn, but if Law and Order, Big Business, or
Gun Control is out, you might be better off than you were with Political
Correctness. If you're still around next turn, you might be close enough to
destroy a group or two and get to the basic goal.
Variations

I'd find it difficult to take out or replace any cards as the deck stands now.
The only one that you could get rid of that isn't an absolute necessity is Newt.
If you're having problems moving things around, you may want to substitute
Offshore Banks for Newt. Another posssibility might be putting in the Ninjas -
see the Lambs to the Slaughter deck to see the fun tricks you can do with the
Ninjas and the Gun Lobby.

Another way to go might be the UFO deck I mentioned earlier. Put in maybe a big
Corporate group like Multinational Oil Companies, and the goals Let Them Eat
Cake and Corporate Masters.

As for the other rares, you need at least either Mossad or the Shroud to get to
the plots on the bottom of your deck. You can get by with one if you can't get
both. I put in Alien Abduction for bringing out Newt quickly, but it could
easily be replaced by another disaster or an extra Censorship/Whispering
Campaign. Cyborg Soldiers can easily be replaced by a Necronomicon, which was
actually the first choice for this deck. I decided to go with the Cyborg
Soldiers because they're not Unique or Magic, and I didn't want to go out of my
way to aggravate any rival Adepts players. But if you want to go with the
Necronomicon, you could possibly offer him the Necronomicon if he agrees to let
you keep the Shroud.
Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: November 3, 1997

Last modified: November 3, 1997
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
