The Adepts of Herpes

by Don Fnordlioni
Section I: The Deck

Herpes is a horrible, incurable social disease, often contracted during
consensual play, and like its viral counterpart -- its constant stream of ATOs
lets it grow without check, and it's hard to get rid of once you've come in
contact with it.

What a bunch of baloney. I just like the pun.
Illuminati

    Adepts of Hermes 

Group Cards

    Cattle Mutilators
    Count Dracula
    Reformed Church of Satan
    Rosicrucians
    Stonehenge
    Templars
    Vampires
    W.I.T.C.H.
    Book of Kells
    Crystal Skull
    Death Mask
    Flying Saucer x2
    Holy Grail
    Necronomicon
    Soulburner 

Plot Cards

    Albino Alligators
    Backmasquerade
    Blitzkrieg
    Cover of Darkness x2
    Crop Circles
    Forgery x3
    Harmonica Virgins x3
    Jake Day
    Messiah
    New Blood x2
    Power Grab
    Privileged Attack
    Savings and Loan Scam
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    The Stars are Right
    The Weak Link
    Unlucky 13
    NWO: Apathy (Red)
    NWO: Solidarity (Red)
    NWO: World Hunger (Blue)
    NWO: Energy Crisis (Blue)
    GOAL: Hail Eris 

Section II: Strategy

Weenie Adepts decks tend to grow rapidly, and rely very little on the dice. This
one in particular typifies the standard isolationist Adepts strategy: Hoard
Resources, protect them, and cruise on to victory. Winning with Resources is
particularly difficult to stop, because of the difficulty inherent in getting
rid of Resources.

The simple overview is this: Get out one of your Flying Saucers as soon as
possible! Every turn, then, you can ATO a group, use the Flying Saucer to take
over a Resource, spend an Illuminati action for another Resource, and knock with
most of your action tokens left. Don't make attacks out of your hand -- rely on
ATOs, a Power Grab, and a Seize the Time. If you get attacked, use the +10s for
defense, but half of your groups are Secret, which is an excellent defense in
itself.

But rather than go into a detailed beginning-middle-end strategy, I'll be going
over some card combinations and tricks this deck is particularly good at. It's
more interesting anyway, and should help a newbie shape his own style of play.
Also, it's pretty pointless to dictate what should happen when -- your Group
deck is huge (16), so there's a good chance some cards (as many as 3) might not
even surface during the course of a normal 3-4 player game.
Section III: Tricks and Ploys
"The Grail Family"

This gambit revolves around ownership of the Grail, and maximizing its
protective abilities. The idea is to control the Holy Grail, Stonehenge and
Dracula, with Stonehenge as the secret location of the Grail, and Dracula linked
to the Grail. This creates a very handy ring of protection: Dracula protects the
Grail from ever being destroyed or stolen, the Grail protects Stonehenge from
ever being destroyed, and Stonehenge protects Dracula from ever being destroyed.
Now, all you have to do is worry about (non-Magic) attacks to control...
"The Lestat Effect"

If you're familiar with Anne Rice books, the vampire Lestat becomes ridiculously
powerful over the course of 4 books. With some luck, Dracula can do the same.
First off, it only makes sense that Dracula gets New Blood at some point (the
ironic plot name alone is worth the play). If you also link the Necronomicon and
Book of Kells to him, control the Church of Satan, and play Messiah, Dracula
becomes a whopping Power 18/18, Resistance 13 monster with two tokens a turn,
whose protected Resources count for your goals and are never in danger of
getting nuked. For added fun, link him to the Death Mask so he can interfere
with nearly attack (with his Global power) after the dice are rolled.

As an aside, you might notice that with the Book of Kells, Dracula can't make
any attack to destroy. This is a Good Thing -- never, never, ever let Dracula
roll the dice, because every time he does, he has a 1 in 12 chance of getting
eaten by the Necronomicon, losing his Resources in the processes. This would be
devastating, to say the least.
"The Old Templars-Mutilators combo"

This might be one of the oldest group-card combinations ever used, but it's
still pretty devastating. Just in case you've been living under a rock for the
last 3 years, you use the Cattle Mutilators to expose a rival's entire hand, and
the Templars to discard the ones which are most useful to said rival (like
Goals). Giving one or the other the Book of Kells makes the gambit even more
painful -- and injecting a Seize the Time in there will make your rival wish he
had MI-5. Use the Cattle Mutilators to expose someone's hand, use two Templar
tokens to discard two Plots, Seize the Time, and do it again. Boom.
"Hidden Agendas"

If you're chugging along nicely, other players may start to get panicky about
your Resources and Groups controlled. For this very reason, you are packing an
extra Goal, which will allow you to win with even fewer Groups controlled. Hail
Eris is good for W.I.T.C.H. (which counts naturally), and the Reformed Church of
Satan (which counts after a decent powerboost, from, say, the Necronomicon[1]).
Jake Day can supply the last Power => 3 group -- if you've paid a lot of
attention to Dracula, he's a good candidate. (Jakeing him will also give him an
extra +4 to get the Vampires, adding to your already huge +16 bonus).

Personally, though, I wouldn't try to get three Weird groups to count double, at
least not until I'm about to declare victory -- it pretty much spells out what
you're going to do, and hurts the element of surprise.
"Magic Hoarding"

By the middle (or even better, the end) you're actually not too bad at stealing
other people's Magic Groups -- and if they're linked to Magic Resources, all the
better for you. Don't ignore that +6 any attempt bonus, -- it makes attacking
your own groups out of hand worthwhile, if you feel like it -- and if you fail,
it's not all that awful. You spent a token, and everyone else knows its in your
hand, but that's all you lose. Such attacks, even if they're only at a 5 or 6
target number, might mean the difference between a loss and a shared victory.

As for Resource hoarding, you're pretty good at stealing other people's
property, what with your three Forgeries or a Weak Link/Cover of Darkness combo
-- However, I'd save the Covers of Darkness for defense, to make sure nobody
else tries to blast your stuff. Finally, The Stars Are Right might let you leap
up from starting a turn 4 groups behind to declaring a quick win.
"Masque of the Red Death"

The Red Death, for you, is The Magic Goes Away. This is extremely, extremely bad
for you. No ATOs, your Resources don't work anymore, and your Magic groups all
lose a point of Power. Boy, does it suck. For this reason, you are packing two
Red NWOs, which suck for everyone else BUT you -- Solidarity and Apathy make
attacks on other players pretty darn difficult, which shouldn't bother you,
because you have very little reason to attack anything or anyone.

Also inconvenient is Peace in Our Time, since a few of your groups are Violent
or Criminal (Dracula, W.I.T.C.H., Cattle Mutilators), but it doesn't hold a
candle to The Magic Goes Away.
"Magic for Magic's sake"

Access to cool Magic plots and abilities is the best reason, in my opinion, for
playing an Adepts deck to begin with. Unlucky 13 is annoying as hell (especially
after you deplete your victim's hand with the Templars/Mutilators),
Backmasquerade lets you shrug of irksome Zaps (most notably, Lab Explosion), and
Crop Circles / Rosicrucians can let you pick exactly the plot you need at the
moment (such as a Red NWO, a Forgery, Stars are Right, whatever).
Section IV: Substitutions

The deck construction is open to lots of manipulation, depending on what you
like to play with. You could throw away all the Magic groups, for all I care,
except for Dracula. None of the other ones deal directly with Resource
acquisition. As for Plots you might like to include some plot-stealing cards, in
order to fuel the Flying Saucer, but as the deck stands, there's very little in
there that you can't stand losing yourself, save for the Red NWOs, the Goal, and
maybe the Forgeries. In short, this isn't the only Adepts deck you can play --
I'm of a firm belief that the Adepts are a pretty versatile Illuminati, more so
than some people will have you believe.
Section V: Rules Problems.

[1] -- Can you, the owner of Dracula, voluntarily relink a Magic Artifact to
another group you control? The relevant text is, "No Magic Artifact linked to
him may be lost by him or taken away by any means..." I'm just not sure of the
word choice, here. If you give someone your car keys, you're not really "losing"
them, and nobody's "taking them away" -- you're just lending them out. But, it's
something to think about -- if you can't relink his stuff, then don't give him
the Necronomicon to begin with, if you plan on winning with the Hail Eris. Leave
it for the Church of Satan. It's less dangerous, anyway.
Back to the Classic Decks.

First posted: July 28, 1997

Last modified: july 28, 1997
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
