The Secret Society of Assassins

by Dave Hughes

based on The Heimlich Maneuver, by Mike Dalton.

Mike Dalton's Heimlich Maneuver deck was a classic - or at least a favourite of
mine, its range of Secret groups making it extremely difficult for your
opponents to attack you. Assassins only added one Secret group, The Thule Group,
but more importantly it gave us The Society of Assassins, which not only lets
you count three of your twelve Secret groups double, it also gives your Fanatic
groups global power equal to their regular power - and a couple of Secret groups
just happen to be Fanatic...

I therefore present, in the absence of Mike Dalton and with extremely large
thanks to Aaron Curtis for his help with fine-tuning, a Society of Assassins
deck that shall henceforth be known as The Secret Society of Assassins...
Illuminati

    Society of Assassins 

Group Cards

    Cattle Mutilators
    Clone Arrangers
    Elders of Zion
    Fiendish Fluoridators
    Junk Mail
    The Men in Black
    NSA
    Robot Sea Monsters
    Rosicrucians
    Subliminals
    Templars
    Vampires
    Book of Kells (for the Rosicrucians)
    Crystal Skull
    Cyborg Soldiers (for Clone Arrangers)
    Lenin's Body (for Clone Arrangers)
    The Library at Alexandria
    Perpetual Motion Machine 

Plot Cards

    Are We Having Fun Yet?
    Backmasquerade
    The Big Score
    Charismatic Leader
    Commitment (for Junk Mail)
    Computer Virus
    Cover of Darkness
    Cover-Up
    Crop Circles
    Deasil Engine
    Forgery
    Giant Kudzu
    Good Polls
    Grave Robbers
    Hat Trick (for Cover-Up)
    Hoax
    Let's Get REALLY Organized
    Mob Influence
    Poison
    Power Grab
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Seize the Time!
    Sorry, Wrong Number
    Stealing the Plans
    Sufficiently Advanced Technology (for Clone Arrangers)
    Terrorist Nuke 

Strategy

Your strategy should be to reach the Basic Goal, counting up to three of your
Secret groups double.

Since all but one of your groups is Secret, there should not be too many casual
attacks on your power structure. In addition, Secret groups tend to have high
Resistance, making them difficult for your opponents to take control of even if
they can circumvent the Secret attribute. And with the formidable control you
have over your Plot deck - thanks to the Rosicrucians and the Crystal Skull -
getting the Plot cards you need should be no problem. The special abilities of
groups such as the NSA, or the Cattle Mutilators + Templars, are useful in
bothering your opponents. Finally, since there are no Personalities or Places in
your power structure, you are immune to Disasters or Assassinations!
Lead

Lead with Junk Mail for its bonus to control Secret groups.

(Editor's Note: Dave didn't say what to do if you bounce on Junk Mail. my guess
would be that you should immediately get nervous, because someone else is
playing another Secret deck. In the case of a bounce, I'd lead with the
Rosicrucians, to try to get Junk Mail out as soon as possible, or with the Clone
Arrangers. RLM)
Play

Protect Junk Mail at all costs. Use the Rosicrucians and the Crystal Skull to
dig Mob Influence and Commitment out of your Plots deck as soon as possible,
using them immediately to boost Junk Mail to Power 6 and Resistance 8 - you
don't want to lose it or let it fall into enemy hands. Additionally, don't build
anything off of Junk Mail - that will just make it more of a target.

Bring out the The Library at Alexandria as soon as possible. This gives you an
additional +5 on any attempt to control Science, Magic or Computer groups (most
Secret groups are one or the other). This, in addition, to Junk Mail's +6 to
take Secret groups, should give you a net +11 to take control of groups from
your own hand even without shared alignment bonuses (don't forget you get them
for Fanatic v Fanatic as well!). Whether or not you use your automatic takeover
to bring a group or Resource into play, you should try to make at least one
attack to control from your hand each turn. Your Secret status should help
prevent interference in these attacks.

(If you have a habit of discarding groups due to high rolls, you may want to
consider adding The Bronze Head to the deck - not absolutely necessary, but
useful especially if you are playing to a high number of groups, as you cannot
afford to lose too many in this way.)

Clone Arrangers is a key group, with high Power and Resistance and some useful
alignments and attributes. Link the Cyborg Soldiers to it as soon as you can to
give them Power 12. Lenin's Body is useful for taking over the Communist Secret
groups (Clone Arrangers, Fiendish Fluoridators) and, linked to the former, gives
them Global Power of 6 - or 12 with the Cyborgs!

When you have either the Elders of Zion or Fiendish Fluroidators in play, use
the Rosicrucians to take out Charismatic Leader, boosting the Power of one of
these groups to 6 - with equivalent Global Power thanks to the Society's special
ability. Link The Book of Kells to The Rosicrucians for even more control of
your Plot deck.
Midgame

Watch out for The Tabloids, which should be destroyed as soon as it hits the
table. Are We Having Fun Yet? should provide emergency protection against their
ability to uncover Secret groups. At this point, you can afford to sacrifice
Junk Mail, even destroying it yourself if absolutely necessary. Just be sure to
help with the Men in Black, so it really is gone for good.

If necessary, use Let's Get REALLY Organized or the Elders of Zion's special
ability (effective but expensive) to open up some control arrows.

(There are no NWOs that will be particularly harmful for you, but - since you
have no Nations, Liberal or Green groups - you might also consider adding NWO:
World Hunger to the deck to slow your opponents - or End of the World to boost
your Fanatic groups.)

Use the popular combination of Cattle Mutilators + Templars to remove your
opponents' favourite plots - and Stealing the Plans to steal your favourites!
Endgame

When you are only a couple of groups away from victory, Seize the Time! and make
a few bonus-boosted attacks to control from your own hand or - even better -
from an opponent. If you are getting behind, concentrate on a couple of
hard-hitting attacks to destroy - using Sorry, Wrong Number if possible -
remembering to capitalise on your bonuses to destroy - +4 from The Men in Black,
+4 vs Government, Corporate or Coastal with the Robot Sea Monsters, +5 vs
Straight and Conservative (Fiendish Fluoridators).
Card Choices

The following explains the thinking behind the less obvious card selections:

Are We Having Fun Yet?
    useful for cancelling The Tabloids' special ability, or Dracula's, or the
Druids - or even Junk Mail's if someone manages to steal it from you! 
Backmasquerade
    protects you and other players from Zaps (a good bargaining tool); for best
results, play on the Vampires, who have no other useful abilities 
Computer Virus
    useful protection against a Suicide Squad, something that hurt in several
playtests of the deck 
Cover of Darkness
    since your resources may become a prime target because of their benefits to
Clone Arrangers, etc. Or use it with Deasil Engine to steal an opponent's
resource 
Good Polls
    probably best used with Criminal, Violent or Weird 
Hat Trick
    doubles as a second Cover-Up (two Cover-Ups will work, too!) 
Hoax, Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know etc.
    or your preferred Plot-killer, protection against cards such as Pizza for
the Secret Meeting, Let the Sunshine In and Exposed! 
Poison
    boost it with the Clone Arrangers for a serious kill 
Sorry, Wrong Number
    useful if you absolutely *have* to make an attack to destroy (against
Tabloids or Count Dracula, for example) or want to help someone else's 

Alternative Choices

A number of other personal-preference cards were dropped from the deck to bring
it down from 93 =) to 45:

Black Helicopters or Privileged Attack
    disallows even Illuminati interference when attacking from your own hand 
Blood, Toil, Tears and Sweat
    to remove any annoying NWO (though not too many will annoy you pers- onally,
you may prefer not to operate under an Apathy or an Interes- ting Times 
Spontaneous Combustion (in place of Poison)
    a neat (Ultra-Rare) Assassination, especially against Count Dracula or if
you have played Sufficiently Advanced Technology on the Clone Arrangers... 
The Thule Group
    another Ultra-Rare, but a bonus Secret group you might care to put in
instead of Vampires or Subliminals, this deck's least useful groups 
World Hunger NWO
    because you have none of the groups it affects, though you could consider
using with NWO: Interesting Times in a two-player game 

Back to the Classic Decks.

First posted: February 3, 1997

Last modified: February 3, 1997
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
