INWO Deck: The Right Wing Revolution
by Dennis Palmero

Liberal Lunatics got you down? Are you worried about a lack of family values in
the world today? Do not sit there my friends, gather up your bibles, let your
voices be heard! Show those Discordian Weirdos just how the world ought to be!
Of course, maybe you just feel this way because the true power behind the Right
Wing Revolution are aliens from another planet - at least, some of these ideas
are out of this world. But if this is true, who controls the aliens? You're not
cleared for that.

The Deck
Illuminati

    The UFO's 

Groups

    Congressional Wives
    Deprogrammers
    Fred Birch Society
    Local Police Departments
    Moral Minority
    Nancy Reagan
    Nephews of God
    Religious Reich
    Republicans
    Ronald Reagan
    Ross Perot
    TV Preachers
    Texas 

Resources

    Cyborg Soldiers
    Immortality Serum
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers 

Plots

    Servants of Cthulhu
    Law and Order (NWO)
    World Hunger (NWO)
    Let Them Eat Cake (Goal)
    18 1/2 Minute Gap
    Bribery
    Citizenship Award
    Clone
    Cover of Darkness
    Deasil Engine
    Dollars for Decency
    Forgery
    Fundie Money
    Good Polls
    Grassroots Support
    Head in a Jar
    Jihad
    Just Say No
    Messiah
    Mistaken Identity
    Murphy's Law
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Seize the Time!
    Slush Fund
    Straighten Up!
    Talisman of Ahrimanes
    The Second Bullet
    Unmasked! 

Strategy
Lead
Lead with the TV Preachers. It has a +6 to take control of any Straight Fanatic
group. Currently, there's only one group that's straight and fanatic: The Moral
Minority. That doesn't mean that another group that's already fanatic in an
opponent's power structure can't become straight!

General Strategy
Its hard not to be overly obvious when you start bringing out one straight and
conservative group one after another. Attack to control the Moral Minority from
the TV Preachers as soon as you can - it should be an easy roll. Bring out the
Republicans as an ATO, then attack with the Republican token to get Texas. Make
bible thumping noises - even with this much conservative power, it may look like
you're going for a Church theme, especially since Texas is in the "Bible Belt",
and the Moral Minority and TV Preachers are obvious. If the Discordians are in
the game, bring out the Deprogrammers and give them Grass Roots support to
really cause the Discordians some worry. (Evil nasty godless weird *FREAKS*!) If
you get a chance, destroy a liberal, or weird, group or two. Get two liberals
down and you may be able to bring out your Let Them Eat Cake! Goal for the win.
Your opponents may begin to suspect the goal, so keep in mind that you can
Unmask! As the Servants of Cthulu, and have those destroyed groups count for
your victory conditions as well!

Link the Cyborg Soldiers to Texas, if you can. Its 12 conservative power comes
in very useful when the power of righteousness needs to be called upon.

If you can bring out the OMCL's (everyone loves the OMCL's, so deasil engines +
Cover of Darkness, Weak Links + Cover of Darkness, and Forgeries are always
useful), start zapping things into being Straight and Fanatical for the TV
Preachers to get their grubby little hands on them. Or, zap things into being
Liberal, and then blow them up with a Cyborg'ed Texas. Drop Fred Birch to help
you for an Illuminated Win, and remember that with each straight group you
control, the Moral Minority steadily becomes the Moral Majority with +1 power
for each straight group!

Ross Perot can be useful to convert groups into being straight and conservative,
especially captures from other people.

Toward the end game, its possible to try for an accelerated win via Nancy Reagan
attacking to control Ronald Reagan. Her bonus of +10 makes Ron and easy target
for her, and with a lot of conservative groups backing her up, she may pull off
a Basic Win for you.

New World Orders
There are two NWO's in this deck, one to help you, and one to hinder others. The
Law and Order NWO is there to increase the power of your straight and
conservative groups. The other, World Hunger, is there to decrease the power of
Liberal groups and nations. I've found World Hunger to be especially powerful
against Shangri-La, since many peaceful groups are also either Liberal or
Nations. That -2 really hurts their accumulation of 30 peaceful points, not to
mention making it easier for you to destroy those evil nasty godless tax and
spend liberal organizations!

Role-Playing Tips
Part of the fun of INWO comes in the role-playing, and this deck is fun for
that! Taking over congress is *not* enough, the Right Wing wants nothing less
than complete control over the world! Decades of failed liberal policy and the
degredation of human values has caused society to go back to what worked "in the
good old days"! Can they do it? Are they mad? Or just controlled by insane space
aliens? Or... *are* they space aliens?

Back to the Deck of the Week.
