The Sorcerous and Larcenous Spawning Behemoth
by Lemar Johnson

This is an Adepts of Hermes Criminal Overlords deck, pure and simple. It breaks
Illuminated Tradition by being exactly what it seems: impressively and
dangerously powerful.

Both the facts that most of the groups in this deck are Criminal and this deck's
power structure grows quickly contributed to the name. Once they face it, your
opponents will have all sorts of names for it, too. In fact, they'll have all
sorts of names for you...

Illuminati
The Adepts of Hermes

Groups

    C.I.A.
    Cattle Mutilators
    Clone Arrangers
    KKK
    Loan Sharks
    The Mafia
    New York
    Ninjas
    Templars
    W.I.T.C.H. 

Resources

    Crystal Skull
    Cyborg Soldiers
    Death Mask
    Necronomicon
    Perpetual Motion Machine
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers
    Soulburner 

Plots

    Angst
    Assertiveness Training
    The Big Score (x2)
    Botched Contact
    Crop Circles
    Forgery
    Good Polls
    I Lied
    Mob Influence
    New Blood
    Nuclear Accident
    Power Corrupts
    Privileged Attack
    Sabotage
    The Second Bullet
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know (x2)
    Seize the Time!
    The Stars Are Right
    Terrorist Nuke (x2)
    Upheaval! (x2)
    Goal: Criminal Overlords
    NWO: Fear and Loathing
    NWO: Gun Control 

Basic Strategy
Attack lots of groups from your hand and use an Illuminati action to make a
takeover of extra resources every turn. Make a deal during a massive final
attack that's too good to pass up and then play I Lied. Win with a huge number
of resources and the Criminal Overlords. Laugh evily.

This deck is what I call a "steamroll" deck - the more groups you have, the more
you can gain easily and you can always gain more groups. It can destroy things,
but destruction slows you down.

From Turn 1 On...
Lead with New York and look innocent as you do such a predictable thing. If
possible, slap down the Necronomicon or Cyborg Soldiers to it quickly; if not,
you will probably have plenty of other resources to get into play. If you can,
lean towards attacking Violent/Criminal groups (New York's bonus to control such
will be +8) and make automatic takeovers of groups with more errant alignments;
this will be doubly good advice in the endgame when everyone realizes you're
about to pound them to dust. Remember, your parents were right: it's o.k. to
fail...especially when the group you failed to take over goes back in your hand.

Note: you could lead with the Mafia - your roll to control Criminal groups would
be one higher than with New York. However, that Criminal group wouldn't get a +1
to power, as it would if New York is on the table.

The point of this deck is to grow as much as possible - it is essential that you
take over one resource every turn. Then watch your opponents' faces as they
realize what's happening. Wait for the first attack.

Then play Upheaval!.

They'll look at you funny, then they'll become annoyed. After a turn, do it
again.

This may seem pointless, but there is actually a very good reason behind it. If
you can gain an extra group every turn in the form of a magic resource or an
attacked group (or both) and you have a massively powerful central group that
can always have a good chance of capturing groups out of your hand (like New
York), you will not be slowed down much by Upheavals!. Your opponents, however,
who have culled their decks to have the most useful groups possible, will find
their plans quickly evaporating. The thing to remember is you don't care about
any group except that one Violent/Criminal group that's leading all of your
attacks; everything else is just cannon fodder. For more on Upheaval!, see
below.

Don't use your normal automatic takeover for resources, if you can help it.
Extra group actions are usually more useful. Don't be afraid to use Illuminati
actions to do so, however.
Card Purposes
The following is a list of why some select cards were included in this deck:

Angst:
    Great to play during an attack after your foe has played Good Polls; playing
it on the target of the attack makes the Good Polls card significantly less
effective. You will need to already have the Orbital Mind Control Lasers out
before it can be played, however. (Editor's note: Lemar has pointed out that
playing Angst during an attack is illegal; Angst instead should be played before
the attack begins. 8/3/97)

Botched Contact
    This and Sabotage are around to keep anyone from beating you at your own
game. If anyone is growing rather quickly, use Botched Contact and pick off one
of his groups next turn. If they persist, draw up a coalition with other
players, Sabotage his next takeover and destroy one of his more important
groups. (This is easier said than done, but with this deck it should not be
impossible).

Cattle Mutilators
    Along with the Templars, this group is meant to Expose/Remove opponents'
Plots. This ability should be used for three reasons:

        To make sure someone you are about to attack has no tricks up their
sleeves.
        As revenge or a threat to someone who is doing unpleasant things to your
power structure.
        To help out others during attacks by doing #1 to their opponents, or to
use as a threatening bargaining chip; don't attack me and I won't expose your
plots. 

Clone Arrangers
    If you absolutely must make an attack on another groups' power structure,
this Secret group is the one to use. If New York controls it (and the Orbital
Mind Control Lasers make the alignments right) it would be possible to suck up
or destroy almost any group on the table. The reason New York needs to be its
master is so it can interfere with a Secret group's attack.

Crop Circles
    Hold this card until near the end of the game. Use it when you have the
opportunity to pull lots of Plots - if you can pull more than one, you can look
through your deck for them all at the same time!

Crystal Skull
    Use the Crystal Skull as much as possible and learn where all of your cards
are. If you know you have a duplicate of a Plot in your hand and need to get rid
of it, discard to the bottom and remember the order of things.

Death Mask
    A sneaky use of this lies with the Ninjas. Boost the Ninja's power to 6.
Attack them every turn with another group to give them an action token. Make an
extra attack to control or destroy per turn with the Ninjas linked to the Mask
so they can interfere and make success nearly assured. This ability also makes a
great bargaining piece with other players. (In fact, if your circle of players
is known for its diplomacy, put Hidden Influence in the deck to give the Ninjas
Global Power. Then auction off a "sure-win attack" to the highest bidder every
turn.)

I Lied
    This is a tricky one. Because you will obviously appear powerful throughout
most of the game, most people won't trust your deals...but neither should they.
Therefore, you should smile. Be nice. And, above all, keep your word. Speak
softly and make lots of deals that show what a nice guy you are. Once you play
this card, however, realize that every man's hand will be against you.

    At that point you become fanatical when it comes to growth.

KKK
    This group is only in here as cannon fodder: for Upheavals, and if it is
absolutely vital you destroy something. Use the Lasers to make the target
peaceful and wear some old clothing to keep the splatters from being to severe
as the carnage begins. If you don't need to destroy things, don't put out this
group at all.

Nuclear Accident
    This is useful if you need to attack something and the Nuclear Power
Companies keep canceling your actions. What this is really for, however, is to
turn Stonehenge into so much road gravel (metaphorically speaking, of course).
In fact, play Botched Contact the moment someone plays Stonehenge, if possible.
Then save up actions and use the Crystal Skull to get to this card, because
eventually Stonehenge will be played.

NWO - Fear and Loathing
    Play this as soon as possible, especially if there are peaceful groups in
play. Not only will your attacks to control be easier (thereby speeding growth),
but it will be easier to destroy peaceful groups. There isn't much point to
doing the latter unless Shangri-La is in play, however. Favor your increase over
an opponent's decrease.

Perpetual Motion Machine
    Eventually, you will run out of group cards in your hand. It is important
that you make two takeovers every turn, so use this device (linked to your
Illuminati) to pull another group card with the extra action.

Privileged Attack
    The most efficient use of this card is after you've made an astounding
number of automatic takeovers in the endgame and are going for the win with an
attack out of your hand.

Sabotage
    See Botched Contact.

Seize the Time!
    The implications of what just one of these would do for your speed to the
win is relatively staggering. I would advise against using this free turn as a
method to attack others; just grow big and use those actions to pull a lot more
plots next turn. It also makes a great recovery tactic for when you've expended
most of your action tokens already. Note: if after you play this card you are
two or less groups away from winning, but still haven't won, you're going to
look like the largest threat in the game. You probably will be.

The Stars are Right
    This card is great in the endgame or the very beginning; in the middle of
the game, it looks threatening. If you can claim the last groups you need to win
with a hard to stop automatic takeover, so much the better.

Upheaval!
    Threaten people about to attack you with this card. When they finally do
attack you, feel no reservations about playing it. Because almost all of your
groups can help one another, the foe will probably have already thrown most of
his own groups into the attack. Upheaval! gives him two choices: get rid of a
group that contributed Power to the attack or get rid of a group meant to
protect his power structure after the attack. The more finely-tuned his groups
are, the more devastating Upheaval! will be to him. In addition, promising to
make everyone lose a group every time you are attacked will not endear the
attacker to his fellow players. Note: Before you get in a situation where you
will play Upheaval!, make sure the chaff of your power structure is on the
outskirts. That way, when you discard them, you won't have any puppets to lose
as well. 

Constants
Whenever possible, keep a Secrets... and a Good Polls in your hand; especially
after a large number of takeovers or having exposed someone's Plots. Some people
just don't take such things in the spirit of fun. The reason I support always
holding onto the Secrets MWNMTK is that I personally see very few attacks that
aren't supported by Plot cards - usually +10 cards.

Attach the Perpetual Motion Machine to your Illuminati as soon as possible; it
can literally be the reason for your win.

Never favor attacking a foe over attacking something from your hand if the
options run about equal. This deck really is isolationistic at best. Smile
quietly. No, I'm not being funny. Noisy people get nailed; the best way to tell
someone to shut up is to knock him out of the game. Help others to destroy
things. Apologize to the victim.

In the endgame, be very quiet and professional. Your foes may simply forget to
look at how big your Power Structure is.

Always be cognizant of how close you are to winning; if you have three
Violent/Criminal groups in your power structure, all you'll need next is five
magic resources if you are holding the Criminal Overlords goal (and you're
playing to twelve groups). Those can be obtained in three turns or less. If you
have any groups that don't count double at that point, it might be wise to play
Upheaval! and slow down the game some.

Special Circumstances
Rival Adepts. If there is another Adepts player, forget everything I said about
being isolationistic and attack him constantly. Be completely sociable to the
other players (it makes the I Lied more unexpected). Cancel his attacks and
cards and play both Botched Contact and Sabotage on him. Knock him out as soon
as possible with attacks to destroy - other players will be more willing to help
you do these than attacks to control. Guard against the threat he represents
with Good Polls and the use of Forgery in the most spiteful ways possible. It
might be best to finish him off as a privileged attack - the other players will
not appreciate the intrinsic beauty of you gaining his resources at his
downfall.

Another Violent/Criminal deck. Can you say Sabotage? I knew you could. Every
time the foe puts out something you have in your hand, reevaluate the situation
and see if you can't take it from him quickly. One particularly nasty strategy
would be to offer to help him in massively overextended attacks, expose his
plots, and then attack him! (I've done this before, but not with this deck. The
principle is the same, though. If you can promise not to attack him and then
play I Lied, so much the better).

Against Bavaria. This is probably the only deck that will be more intimidating
than this one on the table in terms of sheer power. Foster hatred towards the
Bavarian player. Slow down his growth. Play Angst on him. If necessary, draw
fire to yourself while holding Good Polls in your hand; show the opponent the
folly of the wasted effort with an attack following his own.

Alternate Cards
I have been blessed with a lot of good cards, many of them rares, so I have many
cards here which are hard to come by. Nevertheless, I lack some good cards. I've
included Seize the Time and the NWO: Gun Control, yet I don't own either of
these cards (nevertheless, I've won with this deck without those cards). Some
possible targets of replacement include:

Angst
    This rare is just a spoiler; place your favorite nasty card here if you need
a substitute. I would put in Good Polls or a Plot cancellation card.

Cattle Mutilators
    The Phone Companies - or no exposer at all. They are not very essential to
the deck but make a great bargaining chip as described above. Note that if you
don't have them, the need for the Templars is minimal as well.

Crystal Skull
    The Rosicrucians will work here in a pinch, but they don't have as much
long-term effect on your ability to control your deck...and you can't pay an
Illuminati action to lay them down. It's still nice to get the card you want
when you want it...

Cyborg Soldiers
    There aren't many good equivalent replacements for this card, but see below
for a list of cards that are generically good for this deck.

Death Mask
    As Cyborg Soldiers, above.

Necronomicon
    Because this is a magic artifact, this is a bigger loss than the Cyborg
Soldiers. Nevertheless, one has to use the cards one has been dealt (please
excuse the pun).

Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Hoax and 18 1/2 Minute Gap.

Seize the Time!
    Power Grab is the best direct equivalent.

Soulburner
    Good Polls or the IRS. If you're going to throw in the IRS though, why not
put in the Center for Weird Studies? And if you're going to go that far, why not
add Tax Reform?...

Templars
    Wargamers. See Cattle Mutilators. 

Generically Useful Cards
Hat Trick (In case you don't have the duplicates you need for cards...or if you
have the duplicates and you love redundancy).

Hidden Influence (See the Ninjas note above).

Kinder and Gentler (For the KKK especially).

The Library at Alexandria (Especially good if another opponent is the Adepts).

Meteor Strike

Midas Mill (Give New York this and the Necronomicon and watch your opponents
give you wonderfully uneasy looks).

Pentagon (If you choose to put in the Nuclear Power Companies for some reason,
this makes a good companion piece. If you don't already know, the Pentagon lets
you draw an extra Plot card for each Corporate group it controls. This, combined
with the Crystal Skull, could give you a lot of control over your Plots).

Shroud of Turin (For those true control freaks. If you have this and the Crystal
Skull, you can discard to the bottom of your Plots, then pull the bottom Plots
when you need them).

Texas

Another Goal: The Criminal Overlords

More Good Polls (I love these, as you can tell).

More The Stars are Right (There's a reason why I didn't do this. For one thing,
I only have one copy of the card. For another, if I saw someone using this card
every single turn, I would declare the player a power munchkin and lead the holy
crusade against him with the other players backing me up. That's just me. It's
nothing personal - it's all about how incredibly fast you'd grow. In addition,
you'd eventually have to use Illuminati actions to pull more group cards; this
would leave you vulnerable when the attack inevitably comes. And unless you're
pulling three groups a turn, the fact that you have another The Stars Are Right
will become redundant - you won't need the card at all).

My Experience With This Deck
I've played this deck only once before, but without Seize the Time! and Gun
Control. It wasn't much of a game. My opponents didn't make a very fast start
and didn't jump on me fast enough. Even if they had, there wouldn't have been
much they could do about it. I had out the Clone Arrangers attached to New York;
the latter group had the Necronomicon attached to it. I could therefore make an
attack with a Secret group and New York with a total basic power of 20. I also
had the Perpetual Motion Machine out and the Ninjas and W.I.T.C.H. I was slowed
down only with the fact that someone else had the Nuclear Power Companies (the
Discordians) and didn't admire the elegance of my deck. I fixed that in the
endgame with a Nuclear Disaster (the target of my attack, Japan, was completely
unscathed, but the NPC's action went bye-bye). It was almost silly once one
considers how invulnerable I was - I played no more than three Plot cards the
entire game (the first was Power Grab). I won on groups controlled and the
Criminal Overlords, but I had to hunt through my deck to find the latter by
spending lots of actions on Plots (if you don't seem to have this card when you
need it, put two in or the Rosicrucians).

The funny thing was, when I made my last takeover of an opponent's group, that
opponent threatened to respond by playing Upheaval! of all cards. I had two
Upheaval!s already in my hand.

Overall, it was hideously easy...but I'm sure it would have been tougher had the
other players made more flexible decks.

Not much tougher, but tougher nonetheless.

Deck design by Lemar Johnson, a.k.a. Jabberwocky.

Last modified: August 3, 1997
Back to the Deck of the Week.
