Tokens From Heaven

by Brian Davidson
Illuminati

    Bermuda Triangle 

Group Cards

    Bank of England
    Brazil
    China
    England
    Germany
    Hawaii
    NASA
    NATO
    United Nations
    Big Prawn
    Center for Weird Studies
    Clipper Chip
    Crystal Skull
    Orbital Mind Control Lasers 

Plot Cards

    Alternate Goals
    Attitude Mutation
    Are We Having Fun Yet?
    Back to the Salt Mines
    Beach Party
    Blitzkrieg
    Dictatorship
    Early Warning
    Emergency Powers
    Forgery
    Good Polls
    Hoax!
    Let's Get REALLY Organized
    Martial Law
    Mass Murder
    Monopoly
    Mothers' March
    Nuclear Accident
    Privatization x2
    Privileged Attack
    Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    Sniper 

The Goals

This deck is designed to generate lots of hand-picked Plots, by creating loads
of tokens which are exchanged for cards. Once you have all the Plots you need in
hand, it should be relatively easy to make either the PfiOS Goal, or the
Corporate Masters. Basic Goal is not too hard, either, if it's 12 or less, but
it might take a turn or two longer, unless it is as low as 10, because you will
need to steal a couple.

Your token generator is NASA. Protect it at all costs! If you lose NASA, the jig
is up. It's not impossible to win without it, but highly unlikely unless your
rivals are foolish enough to let you sneak a Basic Goal win past them.
Fortunately, you have lots of Government Groups with decent power to help
defend, and NASA should never move away from the +10 proximity region.

Make use of Bermuda's Special Ability at the end of every turn! You must clear
Germany's and England's control arrows so that they can make more attacks to
control. A detailed listing of what each card is for follows after the Strategy
section.
The Strategy
Lead

Lead Bank of England, or the UN if they bounce.
First ATO

UN or NATO. If neither is in hand, go for Germany.
Opening

Try to get the Bank of England out as quickly as possible, if it bounced as a
lead. It is the key to your deck, along with NASA, which must follow soon after.
You will probably need to get a Nation out first, to attack the B of E with.
Germany is better earlier, so it can start building up tokens, but England is
all right, too. Get out whichever of NATO/UN you don't already have. As soon as
you get NASA, use Blitzkrieg on it, then give the token to Germany or England to
use for another attack. Don't play many power boosters or alignment changers
early on; it will make your strategy too obvious. Play it cool until you have
NASA and at least two or three Nations on the board. Get the Center for Weird
Studies out if you draw it, but it can wait for a bit. You'll probably need an
ATO for Hawaii later, as it doesn't have Alignment bonuses for you, but it does
have low Resistance and won't be needed quite yet, so use your ATOs on
Resources, especially the Big Prawn and Crystal Skull.

Do NOT play your Clipper Chip or the OMCLs yet!
Midgame

At about turn three, the fun starts. Use Germany and/or England to bring out the
token-spawning pair of Brazil and China. Drop Let's Get REALLY Organized! on
NASA, use Privatization to make it Corporate, and move them over to it, using
Bermuda's reorganization ability at the end of the turn. Now is also the time to
start powering up, but don't go all out just yet. Boost England with the Big
Prawn (adding anything, whatever will bring confusion to the enemy!), and use
Dictatorship and Emergency Powers if you have them. You should have at least one
if you've been using the B of E and Crystal Skull correctly. This will make
England a target, but with 14 power out of nowhere, it'll be hard to attack
successfully. People will start worrying, but not a lot can hurt you directly,
except the NPCs, and they can only stop one action or ability per turn, unless
they somehow get extra tokens. Once you get Hawaii out there and hanging off of
NASA, they'll get four tokens per turn. Even if China, Brazil or Hawaii get hit
by a Disaster!, they can and will still help you as long as they are not totally
destroyed, and you should be able to give them relief quickly if they are
devastated.

Here's where it gets really cute. Use the Bank of England's token to draw two
plots, and use the Crystal Skull to search for the ones you want. Pull one you
don't need, and discard it using the Center for Weird Studies to get another
token, which can be used by B of E to draw two more Plots! It's sort of a "Buy
two, get one free" situation. Then have NASA give the B of E another token.
Lather. Rinse. Repeat. The Center can only be used once per turn, but it's
really just a bonus here. You'll already be drawing lots of Plots. Now it is
time for a decision.
Endgame

Time for powering up! Get out your Clipper Chip and all of the other power
boosters you have left. Do you go for the PfiOS, Corporate Masters, or try and
steal some from a rival to make the Basic Goal? PFioS will be obvious to most
good players, since you're heavily Government, but Corporate Masters should take
them by surprise. A lot of folks forget that Hawaii is Corporate, and with
Chicken in Every Pot and Bigger Business in play, it counts double for this
Goal! Play the NWOs you need and start cashing in! If you don't have enough to
manage PfiOS, then steal the OMCLs from a rival with Forgery, so he can't stop
you, and go for Corporate Masters by Privatizing or Attitude Mutation-ing any
one of the non-Corporate Groups you have. NATO if probably your best choice
here, as they suffer from Chicken in Every Pot, but would gain more from Bigger
Business. It may cost some tokens, but you should have plenty to spare.

If you can't make the victory bid quite yet, you can also use the OMCLs with the
Center for Weird Studies on your next turn to change TWO Alignments, and set up
a devastating control attack on a suddenly vulnerable rival, to win with the
Basic Goal.

In a game with no ATOs, this will be a little harder, especially getting the
Resources out. I don't recommend this deck for a two-player game. Still, it's
not impossible if you go purely for the Corporate Masters Goal. Suggestions for
replacements are below, after the cards.
Potential problems

Blue and Yellow NWOS are troublesome, especially Anti-trust Legislation, which
will force you to move the token-feeders. You can move them back, though, using
Bermuda's Special Ability once it's gone. For Blue, use Fear and Loathing to
replace them early on, then shift to Chicken in Every Pot at the end. Bigger
Business can be held to counter any Yellow peril. Losing the NWOs might make
PfiOS unreachable, but you should still be able to manage the Corporate Masters
Goal, which should be something of a surprise in such a Government oriented
deck.

Several Media Groups and Plots, and a few odd others, can hurt you. Not much you
can do about some of them, but you have plenty of power to defend yourself.
There's always SMWNMTK and AWHFY, and Beach Party if you are devastated by a
Disaster!. Plot cancellers are somewhat annoying, but that's why you have a
couple, as well. Turnabout is fair play, right?

Kill the NPCs' token with Nuclear Accident before you go all out. Use it on
England if you have to hit one of your own Places, but it's likely someone else
will have at least one out on the table. Even if Discordia has the NPCs, this
will protect you from them. Discordia can be problematic in other ways, though,
as you very nearly can't touch them at all.
What the Cards are For

Bank of England
    two Plots for one token is outstanding, especially if you keep feeding them
NASA's extra tokens. You could conceivably end up drawing 10, 12, or more Plot
cards PER TURN! 
Brazil
    A token maker for NASA, once the latter becomes Corporate. 
China
    ditto. 
Hawaii
    double ditto. 
Germany
    This is where many of your attacks to control from hand will originate, so
keep feeding it a token or two each turn. With the Clipper Chip, Bigger Business
and Chicken in Every Pot in play, it has a Power of 10, more if you use
Emergency Powers or the Big Prawn here instead of on England. 
England
    With Emergency Powers, it has two power 6 tokens, great for attacks and
defense. It gets even better when you throw in the Big Prawn and Dictatorship. 
NATO and United Nations
    big bonuses to control Nations, plus great Disaster! relief. 
The Big Prawn
    Use on Germany or England to boost their power. If used on England, along
with Dictatorship and Emergency Powers, they get two power 14 (!) tokens per
turn, 16 after the Clipper Chip is out, 17 with Chicken in Every Pot. 
Clipper Chip
    boost Government power, which is a lot for you. 
Center for Weird Studies
    More tokens! Draw two plots from B of E, trade one in for a token, then do
it again! 
Orbital Mind Control Lasers
    obvious, but don't bring them out until the endgame! Can also be used to
make NASA Corporate if you can't find your Privatizations, but if you need it
that early, watch out for Forgery! 
NWO: Fear and Loathing
    Will help with your many Government takeovers, but makes you vulnerable to
certain attacks, too. 
NWO: Chicken in Every Pot
    Boost power for all of your Places, and the B of E, but even more, to
replace those other pesky Blue NWOs like World Hunger and Energy Crisis. 
NWO: Political Correctness
    Boosts the UN. Only beneficial Red NWO. 
NWO: Bigger Business
    Helps Germany and Hawaii, and NASA after Privatization, but mostly because
you need a Yellow NWO to get rid of such nuisances as Don't Forget to Smash the
State and World War Three. 
GOAL: PfiOS
    You'll need to spring this in a rush, playing power boosters and NWOs all at
once, if you hope to succeed with it, but it certainly can work, if you pull the
right cards when you're ready. 
GOAL: Corporate Masters
    NASA, Hawaii with a boost, and any one other Privatized Group (NATO) will
all count double for you with this. The really sneaky win for this deck. 
Alternate Goals
    Because you'll want to have both GOAL cards in hand when you make your bid.
If one is foiled, chances are the other will still work, so you can use it right
then. 
Attitude Mutation
    For the Endgame, when you need that third Corporate Group. It's easier to
power than the Orbital Mind Control Lasers. 
AWHFY?
    Just because. 
Back to the Salt Mines
    Use early, to help get your Places out. Being re-usable makes this card more
valuable than a +10 for offense. It can help later with defense, too. 
Beach Party
    for relief, just in case something gets through, and NATO and the UN aren't
able to. It's also faster. 
Blitzkrieg
    For NASA when first taken, to give away the token! 
Dictatorship
    Bye-bye Parliament! England's power rises again. 
Early Warning
    Disaster! protection. 
Emergency Powers
    For England, as noted above. Could be used on others in a pinch, but a pair
of power 14+ tokens is hard to resist. 
Forgery
    Mostly for the OMCLs at the endgame, but you might need it for other
Resources, too. Too bad it won't work on the Prawn. 
Good Polls
    For defense of Government groups, especially your Places. Hold it off as
long as you can, though. You *will* need it later. 
Hoax!
    you'll need Plot cancellers, so one of each. 
Let's Get REALLY Organized
    For NASA, of course, so they can control all three token givers once
Privatized. 
Martial Law
    +10 for your many Government Groups. 
Mass Murder
    For cancelling Media actions and plots, especially Sweeping Reforms, which
could foil your bid for victory in one shot. 
Monopoly
    possibly for NASA, after they are Privatized, or Hawaii if needed for
Corporate Masters. Hold it until the victory bid to see where it will help most.
Mothers' March
    Just in case you lose a critical Group. 
Nuclear Accident
    Don't you just hate those NPCs? 
Privatization
    For NASA, to make it Corporate so it can benefit from the token-feeders,
China, Brazil and Hawaii. 
Privileged Attack
    For that massive attack on the enemy, if you go for a Basic win. 
Secrets Man Was Not Meant to Know
    if you don't know, play checkers instead. 
Sniper
    Government-aided Assassination. England could add as much as 16 points of
power, making 26. Pretty hefty. 

Variants and Substitutions

You can live without Blitzkrieg, but it's so nice to use with NASA.

If you do drop these, you may want to add another Disaster! or maybe another
Assassination!. Extra Secrets or Hoax!es would be useful, too. Place defense
cards like Air Magic and Earth Magic are always helpful. I thought about the
Druids, too, but they're not of any other use than defense to this deck. A
Censorship would be nice if you expect to face Media-heavy decks.

I had considered using a Suicide Squad and Cover of Darkness to get the OMCLs
away from someone else, but eventually chose the Forgery option. You might
prefer the other way; it's two cards either way, one Plot and one Resource.

I also thought about throwing in the Holy Grail and a Midas Mill for Germany,
but decided the deck was too Group/Resource-heavy already. The State Lotteries
were a possibility as a Group, too, but they'd probably have to replace one of
the token-givers. I don't want to sacrifice any of the existing Groups; they
work too well together. I suppose you could drop England and use the boosters I
assigned to it for Germany instead.

Replacement Groups might include the Supreme Court, or maybe even another Place
and the Flat Earthers, if you really want to go for extra Plots. If you're going
to do this, consider Al Amarja for the Place. It's defensive benefits are
tremendous. Other Resources to consider are the Perpetual Motion Machine for
more NASA or B of E tokens, and Holy Grail/Midas Mill as noted above.

For a two-player, or other no-ATO type game, you might want to consider some
situational Groups, depending on what you expect to be facing. If it's going to
be another Government-heavy deck, try the Tobacco Companies or Wall Street. The
Eco-Guerillas will be useful against Corporate decks, as will the EPA if the
NPCs are out there. Discordia really doesn't hurt you all that much, as you
probably won't need to attack them at all.

There's always Bill Clinton or the Congressional Wives for bonuses to take over
your Government Groups, but they are pretty obvious. A bit more subtle is the
Federal Reserve. With the Bank of England also in play, people may be expecting
you to Unmask as the Gnomes of Zurich. Let them. Smile knowingly and wink. Of
course, you could do it anyway, by adding an Unmasked and a Gnomes Illuminati.
This might be useful if you expect to face a Gnomes deck.

You might also consider Unmasking as Bavaria, as it gives you a few extra points
of power for their Goal, as opposed to using PfIOS, but since you have a
potential 81 points if all of the proper NWOs and Clipper Chip are out, an extra
two points is kind of trivial.

Above all, concentrate on token generation and misdirection. There's plenty of
opportunity for both with this deck.
Back to the Deck of the Week.

First posted: May 22, 1998

Last modified: Fri Jun 19 14:14:23 EDT 1998
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
