Understanding Slack, the Extensions of Mutants

Erisian St. Vinge
Illuminati

    The Church of the SubGenius 

Group Cards

    Big Media
    California
    Drs. for "Bob"
    Divine Mail Order
    Dobbstown
    Empty Vee
    Good Sex for Mutants Dating League
    The Hour of Slack
    Jesus B.
    Junk Mail
    Madison Ave.
    Punk Rockers
    Recording Industry
    Reverend Ivan Stang
    Subliminals
    Tabloids
    The Sacred Stencil

Plot Cards

    13013
    Blood, Toil, Sweat and Tears
    Devival
    Don't Touch That Dial
    Eat The Rich!
    Eternal Salvation or Triple Your Money Back
    Foiled
    Give Me Slack or Give me Food
    Media Connections
    More Slack!
    Pulitzer Prize x 3
    Repent!
    Scandal
    Self-Esteem
    Shordurpersav
    Sultan of Slack
    Sweeping Reforms
    Tape Runs Out...
    The Weird Turn Pro
    Time Control
    You'd Pay To Know What You REALLY Think!
    Goal: Hail Eris
    NWO: Apathy
    NWO: Fear and Loathing 

Beginning
The Name is a bastardization of the title of Marshall McLuhan's book about the
Media called Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man. The best way to start
out is usually with usually Madison Ave. or Big Media for their Media intensive
bonuses. Or alternately any smaller group if you have the right power increase
in your hand. Like pulling the Good Sex for Mutants Dating League and Self
Esteem vs. Discordia. Don't weaken yourself quickly by trying to pull off too
many takeovers because each turn you keep your activity to a minimum you'll just
get more slack.
Midgame
Do most of your takeovers with minimal Illuminati action which is why the Media
bonuses to control that Big Media and Madison Ave. offer are good. Using the
weird alignment that most of the groups have is also good to keep the amount of
Illuminati help down, combined with Fear and Loathing to double the bonuses.
Apathy is a good cancellation NWO and it keeps everybody from ganging up against
you and making you waste your slack. The combination of Media and Sub-G specific
cards should keep your hand pretty useful. The Punk Rockers are their to ensure
Discordian submission, while you captivate them with your Punk Rock tunes.
Endgame
Winning with this deck usually involves a bit of subterfuge since it's not very
overpowering and is made to stick to itself. If you can get two Slack tokens and
have 6 groups, not too threatening if people aren't paying attention to your
special goal. You can win next turn without even attacking to control any
groups. The sneaky way to do it is to help somebody else out with your Slack
tokens and making them feel like your less of a threat then just pull out More
Slack and send the Subgenius church a dollar via Jesus B. to pull up to three in
one turn. The other approach towards winning is when everybody thinks they know
what your up to with your Slack conservation methods, you just use up your slack
and instead of getting more via cards just Hail Eris and win with cards like
Jesus B. and the Dobbstown Town. That'll infuriate the Discordian Society
Potential problems
Some problems this deck can run into would probably be from anti media cards due
to it's strong reliance on Media based groups. Also this deck isn't a total
powerhouse so try not and make yourself look like a target or else you'll find
your Slack resources going to defense really quickly.
Variants and Substitutions
If you find people messing with your Media Domination too much via cards like
Mass Murder and Big Foot, or if you just feel like playing out the total
apathetic slacker try switching out 2 of the Pulitzer Prizes for another Apathy
NWO and Don't Touch That Dial. Put in the Frop Farms for Big Media and switch
out Madison Ave. for Secret FisTemples, throw in Janor Hypercleats and drop
Media Connections and you have a Frop Smoking non media reliant deck. The Secret
then is that you have everybody convinced your a complete Subgenius slacker that
doesn't care about winning  as you unmasque as The Society of Assassins and win
from the Secret groups counting double. Ok, well that variant's totally untested
but I thought I'd throw it in just as a possibility. Back to the Deck of the
Week.

First posted: November 7, 1998
Last modified: Sat Nov 7 19:26:47 EST 1998
Ralph Melton ralph@cs.cmu.edu
