Xists
Deck of the Week #87
Engineered by Martin Lærkes

We are the Xists.
Everything our emissary "Bob" has told you is true. The end times, X-day, is
coming soon, and earth will be destroyed, by the wrath of Jehovah 1 and the
yacatisma. On X-day, we will swoop down from the sky in our flying saucers, to
meet the chosen on the secret saucer landing strip. They shall save the
subgenii. And they shall punish everyone else.

Playing the Deck

The Plan
This is the fifth and final deck in the series featuring the goals from the
SubGenius expansion - and it is space themed. This dek attempts to do something
clever with Brag of the SubGenius. The goal is good for weird decks (but those
might as well use Hail Eris), personality decks and church decks. Interestingly,
it is also good for alignmentless deck.

Alignmentless decks are hard to get to work properly, but the theory is this:
With no alignments your power structure won't be easy to attack. It won't be
easy to defend either, but this can be improved on with global power, as well as
either Shangri-La and Discordian Society. You will have limited power, so NWOs
should be used to reduce everyone else's power too. As an added bonus,
alignmentless decks are immune to a lot of rather nasty plots and victory
preventers.

Opening Game
Lead with Orbit One. If this bounces, you will lose your plot advantage, and
possibly the game - but never the less your back up should either be Xists (for
their power), or the Www in a desperate attempt to get Orbit One first.

Leading with Orbit One, your first objective is to ATO a science puppet to
generate extra plot draws, and to get some protection out for Orbit One. Sacred
Stencil is your best bet, but a Power Satellite is also a good. If you have
Nutrition Nazis on your opening hand, use it to create that first science
puppet. Doing this on your first turn will prevent Nutrition Nazis from being
cancelled, and there is no reason to be secret about it. If you can have a
Nazied Xists as your first puppet, go for it.

If your opponents start whining about Blinded by Science, point out that that
goal now requires 30 science power - and that your science groups are all low
power. You can even truthfully tell them that you're not using the goal.

Midgame
Be gutsy and add a second science puppet to Orbit One ASAP. You'll be getting
lots of plot draws this way, so don't be stingy with your plots. Use them up
before they block up your hand. Make deals, or bother the hell out of someone -
just make sure it is someone weak who can't retaliate easily. Anything that
isn't a defensive card should be played sooner rather than later. As for
defense, protecting Orbit One is your number one priority - never forget that.
Back to the Salt Mines is brilliant for defending your many places.
	

The Deck

    Illuminati: Shangri-La

    Moonbase

    MWOWM

    Nutrition Nazis

    Orbit One

    Overman Philo Drummond

    Reverend Ivan Stang

    Saucer Landing Strip

    Silicon Valley

    Stonehenge

    www.subgenius.com

    Xists

    Power Satellite x2

    Sacred Stencil

    Warehouse 23

    13013

    Alien Abduction x2

    The Auditor from Hell x2

    Back to the Salt Mines x2

    Cold Fusion

    Deasil Engine

    Devival

    Goal: Brag of the SubGenius x2

    Head Launching

    Hidden Influence

    Mothers' March

    Murphy's Law

    Near Miss

    NWO: World Hunger x2

    NWO: Peace in Our Time

    NWO: Don't Forget to Smash the State x2

    Power Grab

    Privileged Attack

    Savings & Loan Scam

    SMWNMTK

    Supernova

    Tape Runs Out...

    Yacatisma

Also, remember to bring out a SubGenius group, or maybe even two. With no
alignments and good global power they will hardly look out of place.

End Game
If your defense holds, you should be progressing steadily towards your goal, and
hopefully your plot disruption will prevent your rivals from beating you to it.
On your final turn you should definately ATO a SubGenius group. If your many
plot draws bags you an Alien Abduction or the Privileged Attack, get another
SubGenius group for another big step towards the win. If you have it, the
Moonbase may be a good hiding place for your personalities on your final turn -
but not before. Remember that moving a Power Satellite to the Saucer Landing
Strip will make it count towards your goal.

Simple, perhaps, but quite efficient. If all goes well, your rivals won't be
able to prevent you from catching that saucer.

Potential Problems
If things start to hit the fan, your plot control and good global power should
help you in deals. A shared victory is definitely better than no victory.

Getting an alignment tacked on a key group is a problem - and Backlash won't be
able to remove it. Do your best to avoid such a situation. The Orbital Mind
Control Lasers can really give you a bad day - but fortunately you won't be the
only one hating them, and you do have a Deasil Engine to help you get rid of
them.

If a rival brings out Science Alarmists your game will suffer. You'll have to
rely on your non-science groups, while you wait for NWO: World Hunger to
disconnect their special ability. Naturally, you should be on the lookout for
any opportunity to blow them up - saving you the long wait.

Variants and Substitutions
There are other crazy ways to set up an alignmentless deck. Knock yourself out!
Big Prawn can be a key card, because it removes an alignment and doubles power.
A power 8 alignmentless China might be a good starting point. Secret Master also
removes alignments for lots more possibilities. A Björne deck comes to mind.
Remember, Björne doesn't have to be media, as long as his puppets are. Finally a
deck that leads with Drug Companies can quickly blank out a few big groups, for
a handful of huge alignmentless groups. Once the Drug Companies have prepared
the way, they can always be traded for something else with You'd Pay to Know
What You Really Think.
There are lots of possibilities, just waiting to be explored.
Have
fun.