Your Money is in Good Hands
A Gnomes of Zurich deck by Reverend Pee Kitty
Concept
We control the banks, we control the government. If you try to do something we
don't like, you'll suddenly find yourself short on cash. Your plots will be our
plots, and our plots will multiply and multiply before your eyes. Suffer,
mortal.

ILLUMINATI
Gnomes of Zurich

GROUPS

    Bank of England
    Federal Reserve
    Fnord Motor Company
    I.R.S.
    Mossad
    NASA
    Nuclear Power Companies
    Offshore Banks
    Savings and Loans
    Supreme Court
    Wall Street 

RESOURCES

    Center for Weird Studies
    Clipper Chip
    Suicide Squad
    Xanadu 

PLOTS

    The Auditor From Hell (x2)
    *Backlash
    The Big Score (x2)
    Currency Speculation (x2)
    *Deasil Engine
    Emergency Powers
    TFTWD,LKAT Lawyers
    Forgery
    Giant Kudzu
    GOAL: Power For Its Own Sake
    Grassroots Support
    Just Say No
    NWO: Chicken in Every Pot (x2)
    NWO: Military-Industrial Complex (x2)
    Martial Law (x2)
    Meteor Strike
    Mob Influence
    Nationalization
    Secrets MWNMTK (x2)
    Senate Investigating Committee
    *Sniper
    Straighten Up 

* These are just "generally useful" cards that can be swapped out to meet your
needs (i.e., a Hex if you know you're going against Hermes, or Interference if
you know you're going against Bavaria).

STRATEGY
This depends on whether you're playing a two-player or multiplayer game. In a
two-player game, you want to build up quickly and aggressively, preventing your
opponent from doing anything. Lead with the S&L or the Federal Reserve,
depending on what Plots you draw. Get out Xanadu as soon as possible, then it
becomes safe to bring out the NPCs and IRS. Use the IRS and The Auditor from
Hell to steal Plot cards, while using the Bank of England to draw plenty of your
own. Use the NPCs, Supreme Court, and S&L to cancel any offensive actions your
foe takes. If he doesn't rely on any Govt or Corp groups, leave your Supreme
Court in your hand and focus on other strategies. Use your bonuses to take over
at least one Bank every turn.

When you get NASA and the Clipper Chip out, your Govt groups become very
powerful. This is the time to play NWO:MIC. Now NASA can donate its action to
the NPCs or the Bank of England. If you don't trust your NWO to survive, use
Nationalization on the NPCs; otherwise, use it on the Offshore Banks. Use one of
these Govt groups to hit your foe with a Senate Investigating Committee as soon
as possible.

The Disasters let you remove a key token from a Place at the right time, and can
be effective in their own right. Meteor Strike can affect anything, and can
devastate or destroy a group far from the Illuminati. Giant Kudzu can be used
two ways: When he has lots of tokens, make him waste them saving his Place, or,
when he's low on tokens, use it to take out an important Place.

If you're playing right, you should have the ability to cancel your foe's
actions, draw as many Plot cards as you need, and still have tokens left for
attack and defense, in a matter of turns. If you've gotten most of your
Power-6-Boosters out, you could pull off an early win with Power For Its Own
Sake; otherwise, you should be able to win in a few turns. Remember your bonus
to take over Banks; with the S&L and Federal Reserve out, you'll be up to +13.
Use this to make a last-minute rush to victory.

In a multiplayer game, or when facing Discordia, you can't just crush your
opponent. Try not to call TOO much attention to yourself as you build up your
power structure. Lead with the Federal Reserve, and bring out the S&Ls as soon
as possible. Now you can start taking over Banks as fast as possible without
being too obvious. Xanadu is a must, and getting out a Suicide Squad, just to
sit there next to your power structure, will make most foes hesitate to bring
out a good Resource. Keep the Bank of England safe, and use it to draw defensive
Plots (such as the +10 boosters) in case a coalition is created against you. If
you keep quiet, and build up a tight but powerful power structure, with lots of
Power 5 and 6 Govt groups, you could pull off a fast surprise win with Power For
Its Own Sake by bringing out NWO:Chicken, NWO:MIC, and a Clipper Chip all at
once.

All-in-all, this is a definite power gaming deck, but that's what Zurich is good
at. Don't win with it too much, though, or you may find your tires slashed after
the game...

Rev. Pee Kitty, of the order Malkavian-Dobbsian

Meow!

Back to the Deck of the Week.
